The purpose of this registry is to investigate the safety and efficiency performance of the       leadless pacemakers in Taiwan. The registry will collect all the information about the       patient selection, implantation procedure, and follow up parameters of the leadless       pacemakers to evaluate the real-world benefit specifically in Taiwan population.
Background: Implantation of a cardiac pacemaker may be indicated in patients with a       significant bradycardia according to current guidelines.1 Annually, around 691 pacemakers per       million inhabitants are implanted in Sweden.2 A pacemaker system consist of one or two leads       connected to a device that is implanted beneath the collarbone.3,4 Vessel access is typically       on the left side through the cephalic, axillary or subclavian vein. The pacemaker is inserted       into a pocket. Routinely this pocket is just above the pectoral fascia (subcutaneously) or       sometimes in skinny patients with a small amount of subcutaneous fat between the pectoral       muscular layer (intramuscular). Even though technical developments have diminished the size       of pacemakers markedly over time, complications due to superficial implants still do       occur.5,6 Occasionally the device erode the skin and a complete extraction of the system is       necessary. More frequently patients complain about the device being too superficial which       sometimes require surgical repositioning of the device.5,6 The device may create discomfort,       pain, and unsightly.5,6 The lateral corner of the device may disturb the shoulder movement,       sleep and the leads can be turned within the pocket (Twiddler's syndrome). Minor branches       from the supraclavicular nerves may result in discomfort. When vessels from the subcutaneous       adipose tissue are distorted, extensive bruising may be bothersome and a large hematoma is a       known risk of infection. The perfusion in the operation area is diminished and the amount of       fat over device may be reduced to an extent that was unexpected at first implant. The change       of device due to battery depletion can result in even less surrounding tissue. An alternative       approach is an intramuscular placement of the device.7,8 This has been advocated by Kistler       et al based on personal experience but there are neither systematic observational studies nor       randomized controlled studies to support this approach.6 To the knowledge of the       investigators no randomized controlled trial have addressed the question about the optimal       placement of a bradycardia pacemaker.        Aim: To compare patient satisfaction with intramuscular placement of a pacemaker pocket to       subcutaneous placement.        Research questions: Primary outcome: Is there a different in patient overall satisfaction (on       a Visual Analog Scale (VAS)-scale between 0-10) with the pocket between patients with       intramuscular placement of a pacemaker pocket and patients with subcutaneous placement at 24       months after implant? Secondary outcomes: Complications (revision of pocket, dislodgement,       hematoma requiring surgery, infection (local/systemic). Patient reported satisfaction at 1,       12, 24 months (overall satisfaction, pain, discomfort, degree of unsightly look, movement       problems due to device, and sleep problems due to device). Pacemaker nurse judgement of       unsightly look of the pacemaker pocket (month 1, 12, and 24). Picture of pocket (1, 12, 24       months) judged by an experienced implanting physician who is blinded to the group allocation       and has not operated on the patient.        Method: Power analysis: the investigators performed a power analysis based on expectations       and clinical experience of the research group. Figure 1 shows two hypothetical truncated       lognormal distributions of patient overall satisfaction with the pacemaker, where median       overall satisfaction of the intramuscular and the subcutaneous group are assumed to be 2.4       and 4, respectively. Monte Carlo-simulations from these distributions showed that a total of       200 patients, 100 in each arm, would yield a statistical power of 90% for Mann-Whitney U-test       at a significance level of 0.05.        In total, 200 consecutive patients with indication of are expected to be randomized in the       study (100 patients in each arm, intramuscular vs subcutaneously). In Region Gavleborg , the       annual primary implant volume of bradycardia pacemakers is approximately 220.        Figure 1. Assumed distributions of patient overall satisfaction in the power analysis, as       measured by an visual analogue scale where 0 means "very satisfied" and 10 means "very       dissatisfied". The intramuscular group is assumed to follow a lognormal distribution with       mean 1.5 and standard deviation of 1, on the logarithmic scale. The subcutaneous patients are       assumed to follow a lognormal distribution with mean 1.5 and standard deviation of 1, on the       logarithmic scale.        Randomization: At the time of implant 1:1 randomization (100 patients in each group) to       either subcutaneous (usual care) or intramuscular implant, in blocks with random block sizes.       The randomization is performed by a statistician with no insight in the ongoing clinical work       and patients' group allocation is revealed for implanting physician by the assistant nurse at       the start of the surgical procedure. Randomization procedure: stratification (age strata: ≤65       years and >65 years) and sex (female, male); totally 4 strata). Consecutive group allocations       will be stored in sealed opaque envelopes that will be opened at the time of starting the       implant procedure.        Inclusion: Indication of a bradycardia pacemaker (DDDR, VVIR). Exclusion: Cardiac       Resynchronisation Therapy Pacemaker (CRTP), Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy Defibrillator       (CRTD), implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Very skinny patient deemed as such by       implanting physician to clearly benefit from intramuscular implant.        Surgical procedure: Standard procedure and vascular access by each operator's preference.       Blunt dissection of the pocket.        Statistical methods: For comparisons between groups: Mann-Whitney U-test. For test of changes       in VAS-estimations between 1, 12, and 24 months: pair-wise Wilcoxon signed-rank test.        Informed consent: Written and oral information by nurse/physician before implant.        Ethical approval: Approved by Uppsala Regional Committee. Clinical Trial Registration:       Registration before start of study.        Variables:        Clinical variables: age, sex, coronary artery disease, open-heart surgery, diabetes, kidney       disease Pacemaker system: (VVIR, DDDR), brand, model (lead(s) and device. Vascular access:       (cephalic, axillary, subclavian vein), fluro-time, procedure time Periprocedural analgetics       (dosage): alfentanil, morphine, diazepam, paracetamol Pre och post-operative anticoagulant       medication (dosage and withdrawal with respect to procedure: acetylic acid, clopidogrel,       ticagrelor, dual oral anticoagulants, warfarin, low-molecular weight heparin) Preoperative       current medication: (psychoactive drugs, betablockers, corticosteroids, inflammatory       modulating drugs Outcome measurements: Patient satisfaction (overall, chronic pain,       discomfort, degree of unsightly look, movement disorder due to device, sleep problems due to       device) scale 0-10 (10 worst) Paper questionnaire at 1,12,and 24 months. Patient knowledge if       device was intramuscular or subcutaneously implanted at 24 months.        Pacemaker nurse judgement: unsightly look (0-10, 10 worst). Physician evaluation (blinded to       the patient and not operator in the study): photo of pocket (1, 12, 24 months) scale 0-10 (10       worst).        Complications requiring surgery: pocket revision, dislodgment, hematoma requiring surgery,       infection (local, systemic), pneumothorax, pericardial effusion requiring drainage, other.        Clinical perspectives: The surgical approach to the pacemaker pocket needs to be evaluated.       The optimal approach including patient reported outcomes may result in more long-term       satisfaction and may reduce the need for pocket revisions.
In France, nearly 49,000 permanent pacemakers are implanted each year. The pacemaker       longevity is about 10 years which leads to their replacement.        In France, in 2016, 15,764 pacemaker replacement hospital stays took place. 10.6% of them       were made during an outpatient stay, 12.4% during a one-night hospitalization and 70.7%       during hospitalization for two or more than two nights for the severity level 1.        If the outpatient care management is deployed at 90%, the economy of the cost care will be       estimated to be 3,5 million euros and a reduction of 15 582 hospitalization night's stay.        The aim of START study is to compare cost-utility between ambulatory and conventional       hospitalization care of permanent pacemakers replacement for elective replacement indicator       and to demonstrate equivalence between outpatient management and conventional hospitalization       management.        This study is in adequation with the national ambition to deploy the outpatient management in       France. Surgery is the same with both hospitalization managements.        An ambulatory surgery need to present different advantages and benefits like high quality       care and substantial cost savings.        The benefits of ambulatory care management are :          -  An economy of hospitalization nights cost.          -  A decrease in health costs related to the surgery realization.          -  Patient satisfaction expected due to hospital discharged within 24 hours. Patient is            expected to go home the same day as the surgery with good perception of ambulatory            surgery.          -  A decrease in the disorientation risk in the elderly patient is also expected.        Surgery is the same with both hospitalization managements.        Patients will be randomized in 2 arms. An arm conventional hospitalization management       (control arm) and an arm outpatient care management.        Study period is 30 months. Patients will be following during 6 months. The recruitment time       will be 24 months.
nan
Although advances in device and lead technology have expanded the ability to implant       pacemakers and defibrillators in children and patients with congenital heart disease , a       number of challenges exist that can complicate long-term pacing success in this unique       population . These include a long duration of pacing need, a more active lifestyle in young       patients, somatic growth, congenital cardiac abnormalities, and relatively small patient and       vessel size. Traditional stylet driven leads have limited maneuverability, making lead       placement in smaller patients and those with structural abnormalities more challenging.        Additionally, the larger lead diameter needed to accommodate the stylet has been correlated       with increased risk of venous complications in children . Furthermore, many congenital heart       disease patients have structural abnormalities and cardiac scarring that require pacing leads       to be placed in non-standard locations, and selective site pacing can be difficult to achieve       with stylet-driven leads .        Pacing therapy in children must take into account several unique pediatric issues: (1) small       physique; (2) somatic growth; (3) presence of intracardiac shunts; and (4) a complex       anatomical heart structure. It is important to understand these features when deciding       whether pacing is indicated, as well as when selecting the time to implant and how to       implant.        The 2008 Guidelines of the American College of Cardiology /American Heart Association /Heart       Rhythm Society summarize indications for pacing treatment in children. Atrioventricular block       including congenital atrioventricular block associated with cardiac surgery or a natural       history of complex congenital heart disease such as corrected transposition of the great       arteries are the most important indications for pacemaker implantation in children 8-13. In       pediatric patients, atrioventricular block that does not recover within 7-10 days after       cardiac surgery is associated with a risk of sudden cardiac death in the future, so pacemaker       implantation is recommended.        Dual-chamber pacemakers are often selected for adult patients with atrioventricular block.       Dual-chamber pacemakers pacing requires two endocardial leads. In infants, this presents a       problem because the venous diameter is small and may cause venous obstruction. A single       chamber ventricular pacemaker instead of a dual-chamber pacemaker is a good alternative       choice in children with complete atrioventricular block and normal sinus node function,       because it requires only a single lead and may reduce the possibility of venous occlusion.       The high heart rate of infants is another issue. The mean heart rate of an infant is 100 bpm       or faster, increasing to 180-200 bpm or above when crying. In an infant with atrioventricular       block, the atrial rate becomes so rapid that it may exceed the maximum programmable upper       tracking rate, which is limited by the post-ventricular atrial refractory period and       atrioventricular delay. Under the condition where the atrial heart rate exceeds the maximum       programmable upper tracking rate, symptomatic 2:1 atrioventricular block may occur.       Therefore, in infants with a small body size and a rapid ventricular rate, single chamber       ventricular pacing or single-chamber ventricular pacing with rate response should be       selected.
nan
This is a multicenter,prospective, open, interventional study. All patients will undergo       permanent pacemaker implantation. The study will involve eight different steps, from the       screening procedure through study completion: screening, enrollment, pharmacological testing,       randomization of group allocation, preprocedural assessment, procedure, follow-up, study       completion. The dedicated study members (cardiac electrophysiologists, statisticians) and the       PI are responsible for recording all data from the trial on the case report forms (CRFs) and       completing the study database. The participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to       either GPs ablation followed by permanent pacemaker implantation or pacemaker alone.       Randomization will be conducted centrally by an independent statistics department(Oxford       Medical Center of National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Beijing, China) and stratified       by center and age(<50 or >=50 years); A dedicated independent physician will be responsible       for the safety monitoring. The PI will permit inspection of the trial files and the database       by national or international official controlling scientific authorities, if required. The PI       will review and monitor completed CRFs and the database at regular intervals throughout the       trial.
The scapula plays a key role in nearly every aspect of normal shoulder function. Shoulder       dyskinesia or scapula winging effects patients as a result of nerve injury or muscle       detachment or abnormal muscle recruitment. Patients with abnormal muscle recruitment often       are helped the most by therapy but restoring normal firing can be difficult. Abnormal muscle       recruitment is due to pain or weakness or instability of the glenohumeral joint and the       muscles around the scapula attempt to compensate for the lack of normal firing patterns. In       many patients, physical therapy and surgery have proven to be unsuccessful treatment options.        The Shoulder Pacemaker is a device that specifically aims at resolving functional issues that       surgery and physical therapy are unable. It's a wearable electro stimulator created for       patients suffering from unbalanced muscle activation in the shoulder, such as Scapular       Dyskinesis. The Shoulder Pacemaker delivers "smart stimulation" through a dynamic interaction       between the patient and the device. The motion technology recognizes muscle movement and       automatically sets the appropriate stimulation intensity according to the movement. This       process helps to restore normal muscle activation patterns and equilibrium. The pacemaker       will hopefully assist in restoring normal muscle recruitment.
Development of atrioventricular (AV) conduction system abnormalities requiring placement of a       permanent pacemaker (PPM) is a known complication of transcatheter aortic valve replacement       (TAVR). Male gender, pre-existing AV conduction system abnormalities, transient AV block       intra-procedurally, and use of a self-expanding valve have all been associated with increased       risk of AV block and need for permanent pacemaker placement. Persistent AV conduction       abnormalities have been documented in approximately 15% of patients who receive an Edwards       Sapien valve, with 4% requiring permanent pacemaker placement. 22-28% of patients who receive       a CoreValve require permanent pacemaker placement in some studies. In one study, 78% of       patients who underwent His bundle electrogram assessment during CoreValve placement had       transient or persistent AV conduction system abnormalities during the procedure.        Pacemakers placed at The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano are produced by two manufactures:       Medtronic, Inc. and St. Jude Medical, Inc. Each of these manufacturers have pacemakers with       algorithms designed to minimize right ventricular pacing. Medtronic's algorithm is referred       to as "MVP" (Managed Ventricular Pacing), and St. Jude Medical's algorithm is referred to as       "VIP" (Ventricular Intrinsic Preference). Each of these techniques purports to reduce       unnecessary right ventricular (RV) pacing through a novel pacemaker algorithm. Both       manufacturers' pacemaker programmers and remote monitoring systems allow for demonstration of       the percentage of ventricular pacing performed by the device.        The Investigators propose to assess the 90 day- ventricular pacing, atrioventricular block       (AVB), intraventricular conduction delay (IVCD), bundle branch block (BBB), and rate       histogram incidence in those patients who undergo pacemaker implantation due to elevated risk       (or occurrence of) high-grade AV block after TAVR.
This protocol outlines the methods on the Micra Pacemaker. The Micra Transcatheter Pacemaker       System is a miniaturized single chamber pacemaker system that is delivered via catheter       through the femoral vein and is implanted directly inside the right ventricle of the heart.       The Micra device eliminates the need for a device pocket and insertion of a pacing lead,       thereby eliminating lead and pocket related complications associated with traditional pacing       systems while providing similar pacing benefits. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)       approved the Micra system on April 6, 2016, for the following conditions:          -  symptomatic paroxysmal or permanent high-grade atrioventricular block (AV) in the            presence of atrial fibrillation (AF)          -  symptomatic paroxysmal or permanent high-grade AV block in the absence of AF, as an            alternative to dual chamber pacing, when atrial lead placement is considered difficult,            high risk, or not deemed necessary for effective therapy          -  symptomatic bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome or sinus node dysfunction (sinus            bradycardia or sinus pauses), as an alternative to atrial or dual chamber pacing, when            atrial lead placement is considered difficult, high risk, or not deemed necessary for            effective therapy The FDA approved the Micra system on the basis of clinical trial            evidence from the Micra Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) study (NCT02488681).        On January 18, 2017, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a final       National Coverage Determination (NCD) on leadless pacemakers, providing for coverage with       Coverage with Evidence Development (CED) of approved leadless pacemakers for approved       indications (CAG-00448N). The NCD requires the research study conducted as part of CED to       address the following research questions:          1. What are the peri-procedural and post-procedural complications of leadless pacemakers?          2. What are the long-term outcomes of leadless pacemakers?          3. What are the effects of patient characteristics (age, gender, comorbidities) on the use            and health effects of leadless pacemakers?        In addition, CMS outlined six evidentiary gaps in the final NCD for leadless pacemakers:          1. What are the peri-procedural and post-procedural complications, and long term outcomes            of leadless pacemakers?          2. Are leadless pacemakers equivalent or superior to conventional pacemaker's in general            clinical practice?          3. What are the infection rates, the long-term hemodynamic effects, and the rates of            formation of thrombi?          4. What are the patient demographics and effects of patient characteristics (age, gender,            comorbidities) on the use and health effects of leadless pacemakers?          5. What are the device-related issues (handling of end of battery life; effects of having            multiple leadless pacemakers implanted; rate of device dislodgement; and the possibility            of device extractions)?          6. How are operators and facility characteristics related to peri-procedural and            post-procedural complications?
The assessment of the safety of SIELLO pacemaker leads is based on the collection of       complications which are related to the leads. The assessment of efficacy of the SIELLO       pacemaker leads is based on the collection of standard electrical lead data during the       implant and follow-up procedures. Subsequent to the implantation of the SIELLO leads,five       follow-up visits have been scheduled: at pre-discharge and after 1, 3, 6 and 12 months.
In contrast to classical gold-standard ECG, cECG electrodes can sense the electrical activity       of the heart even over the clothing of the subject, which allows several applications in       out-of-hospital monitoring. The proposed scenarios for cECG revolve around the       unobtrusiveness of the measurement with an inferior signal quality to gold standard ECG. The       electrical spikes, that come into existence due to the paced rhythms given by a pacemaker,       are only visible in ECG signals recorded by adequate medical instrumentation. Whether cECG       can deliver enough signal quality to identify the electrical spikes of the paced rhythms       needs to be investigated by recording simultaneous normal and capacitive ECG signals.
nan
nan
CFR.890.5850 requires that the labelling for powered muscle stimulators includes the       contraindication 'Powered muscle stimulators should not be used on patients with cardiac       demand pacemakers'.        Further, IEC 60601-2-10:2012 clause 210.7.9.2.101d, requires that the instructions for use       provide: 'Advice that a PATIENT with an implanted electronic device (for example a cardiac       pacemaker) should not be subjected to stimulation unless specialist medical opinion has first       been obtained'. However, no details on what criteria the specialist should apply.        There is evidence that some powered muscle stimulators, and related devices can affect       Cardiac Demand Pacemakers(1,2). Traditional powered muscle stimulators use pulse trains at a       frequency of at least 30Hz(3) to elicit muscle contractions. The electrodes for these devices       may be placed at number of sites on the body depending on the application, including the       legs, arms and torso, often with well-spaced electrodes that may be attached to different       limbs, sending electrical impulses through the torso.        The geko™ range of devices, however operate by delivering a single pulse at a frequency of       1Hz with electrodes placed topically, close together, at the knee. The nature of the       stimulation pulse, and its location make it extremely unlikely that the geko™ devices could       interfere with cardiac demand pacemakers. However, there is no direct evidence to support       this assumption. This trial will determine if there are any adverse interactions between the       geko™ and cardiac pacemakers.
Pacemakers are widely used in postcardiotomy patients to avoid severe arrhythmia. The       peripheral perfusion index (PI) has been considered as an effective parameter evaluating the       circulation. In this study, investigators aim to evaluate the ability of peripheral perfusion       index to detect changes of hemodynamics (cardiac output or storke volume,et al) in       postcardiotomy patients with pacemakers.
Syncope is defined as a loss of consciousness with inability to maintain the postural tone,       with subsequent spontaneous recovery and without neurological sequelae. This occurs due to       cerebral hypoperfusion by two mechanisms: 1) decreased cardiac output, usually due to       bradycardia, and 2) hypotension due to decreased peripheral vascular resistance. An incidence       of 6.2 per 1000 persons / year has been calculated, constitutes 2% of the reasons for       consultation by emergency department and is found in 40% of the hospitalized participants.       Its prevalence increases with age and is clearly influenced by the presence or absence of       heart disease. The most frequent etiology is vasovagal, which has a benign course, with a       mortality that does not exceed the expected for the general population. However, up to 21.6%       have recurrences, which affects the quality of life and can generate physical injuries,       especially in the geriatric population. The pathophysiology is not completely clear, it is       thought that orthostasis has an important mechanism by decreasing the venous return,       therefore, this leads to a vigorous contraction of the myocardium in the presence of a little       filled heart chamber, it can stimulate the mechanoreceptors and thus precipitate the Bezold       Jarisch reflex, which results in paradoxical hypotension and bradycardia.        The management can be variable, and will depend on the patient's response, from conservative       strategies such as changes in lifestyle, avoiding triggers, abortive maneuvers in the case of       prodromes, and some drugs (fludrocortisone) to cardiac stimulation devices such as       pacemakers. Cardiac stimulation has been studied in participants with cardioinhibitory       response in the Tilt test with divergent results, especially with the use of conventional       pacemakers that monitor the fall in heart rate. Interestingly, an other type of pacemakers,       those with closed handle sensor (CLS), that measures the impedance through each beat, which       is related to myocardial contractility, in this way it could detect changes in the       contractility that precede the cardioinhibitory response, and thus guarantee a good cardiac       output and avoid syncope.        The use of cardiac stimulation therapy has been proposed as an effective strategy in       participants with recurrent syncope and refractory to pharmacological and non-pharmacological       measures, a special group are those with a cardioinhibitory response with asystole greater       than 6 seconds, however, this benefit it could be extrapolated to those of mixed commitment.       In the world, there is no definitive consensus on the level of recommendation for the       implantation of pacemakers with CLS in this disease, however, based on the pathophysiology,       studies of the disease and technical elements on the functioning of these devices, they have       come implanting in Colombia and in the world with apparent good results in the quality of       life of the participants, syncope-free event rate, longer time to the first syncope and       improvement in hemodynamic parameters in the Tilt Test. In Colombia, more research is needed       to confirm or reject this assertion.        General objective: Evaluate the effect of cardiac pacing therapy with CLS pacemakers on       quality of life, recurrence of syncope and pre-syncopal symptoms of participants with a       diagnosis of neurally mediated syncope (with mixed response or inhibitory cardio) refractory       to pharmacological and non-pharmacological management, in six health care centers in the city       of Medellín.        Specific objectives          -  Sociodemographically and clinically characterize the study population.          -  Evaluate the impact on quality of life, pre and post implant.          -  Measure the occurrence of episodes of syncope, pre and post implant.          -  Assess the reduction of pre-syncopal symptoms.          -  Evaluate if the mode and programming functions influence the appearance of syncopes and            recurrences.          -  Determine the average time that elapses from the implantation of the CLS pacemaker until            the first episode of syncope.        Interventions of participants          -  A: participants who will be activated the CLS function one month after implantation of            the pacemaker. They will be reevaluated after 4 months and will be changed to DDD-R mode            for another 4 months, when the results will be analyzed to define the final form of            reprogramming.          -  B: patient to whom, one month after the implantation of the pacemaker, the R function            will be activated. They will be reevaluated after 4 months and will be switched to            DDD-CLS mode for another 4 months, when they will be evaluated again and the results            will be analyzed for define final form of reprogramming.        Participants will be contacted through the electrophysiology service of "CES Cardiology" in       Medellín, Colombia.        The calculation of the sample size was carried out probabilistically with the following       parameters and based on the previous studies: Power 80%, confidence: 95%, expected proportion       of group 1: 72%, expected proportion group2: 99% What gave the following results:       intervention A: 26 participants, intervention B: 26 participants. Total sample: 52       participants.        Selection of participants All participants will be recruited and who meet all the inclusion       criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be selected by one of the members of the       research team previously trained on the Plan of Clinical Research and that has been       designated to perform this type of tasks.        Estimated time to include participants The inclusion of all participants requires       approximately 6 months. The anticipated duration of this study is 27 months. This will depend       on the inclusion rate.        Informed consent process: It will be prepared by the principal investigator, with the       information indicated in article 15 of resolution 8430.          -  It will be reviewed by the Human Research Ethics Committee of the CES University and can            only be signed by the patient, researchers and witnesses when it is approved.          -  Indicate the names and contact forms of the principal investigators and who should be            contacted in case of any difficulty or adverse event.          -  It must be signed by two witnesses and by the research subject or his legal            representative. If the research subject does not know how to sign, he will print his            fingerprint and in his name he will sign another person that he designates.          -  It will be prepared in duplicate, leaving a copy in the possession of the research            subject or his legal representative.        Blinding of the study: The programming modes of the intracardiac devices can only be known       through the use of specific reprogramming equipment provided by each generating company of       the device. In the case of pacemakers with CLS, their only manufacturer is Biotronik, so they       provide a device that connects with the device that the patient has implanted. Unless the       reprogramming card is delivered, neither the patient nor another person will be able to       establish the programming mode.        In this way the people who will be in contact with the programming of the device will be:        Electrophysiologist in charge of implanting the device: it could be any of the members of the       CES Cardiology group with this training, it will implant the device and leave it in DDD-CLS       mode to start the first month or washing time. This electrophysiologist will not make any       scheduled visits or reprogram the device in any of his visits.        Electrophysiologist commissioned the visit by electrophysiology within each of the visits       scheduled and listed above: professional in charge of programming the devices as established       by the paper envelopes generated in the random assignment. It will be the only person who       will know the way of programming during the 8 months of intervention and will not disclose       this information to the patient or their relatives.        Main co-investigators: they will not know the way of programming the device nor will they       attend the part of the visit that performs electrophysiology. In another office and before or       after the program, they will evaluate the patient clinically and ask the questions included       in the scales of quality of life used.        The person who will analyze the information: will know the process. The patient: He will not       know the programming mode of his device, that is, he will not know if he is in DDD - CLS or       DDD - R. This study will be double blind.        Random assignment Through computer-based randomization programs, 26 participants will be       assigned to the group of participants who, in the month of implantation, will be programmed       in DDD-CLS mode and 26 participants who will be programmed in DDD-R mode one month after       implantation. The randomization will be known by the investigating epidemiologist who will       activate the randomization program and the electrophysiologist who will program the patient.       Initial randomized programming modes will be delivered in sealed envelopes to the       electrophysiologist who will program the patient.        Procedures The clinical trial will be conducted in accordance with the Clinical Research       Plan. All those who participate in the conduct of the clinical study will be qualified by       training, training or experience to carry out their tasks and this training should be       documented in an appropriate manner. The clinical study will not begin until it receives       written approval from the Ethics Committee and the relevant regulatory authorities and all       necessary documentation has been collected. Procedures during the time of intervention. Once       the patient enters the health center with criteria to participate in the study, as long as it       does not meet any of the exclusion criteria and has signed the informed consent (the       participant or a legal representative in case this is not in conditions to sign).        Starting point: Prior to implanting the device. Between the day of implantation and the first       month (at which time the initial visit will take place) will be the washing or "wash out"       process in which the device will be left in DDD-CLS mode until the start visit.        Start visit: One month after implanting the device. It includes two parts: Evaluation by       electrophysiology and Clinical evaluation.        Visit # 1: It will happen 4 months after the start visit. It includes two parts: Evaluation       by electrophysiology and Clinical evaluation.        Visit # 2: Finally, a final check (visit # 2) will be made 8 months after the start visit and       4 months after the visit # 1. It includes two parts: Evaluation by electrophysiology and       Clinical evaluation.        Procedures during the time following the end of the intervention: At the end of the 8 months       in which the information on the mode of reprogramming was recorded and these modes were       reversed, the follow-up will continue for 12 more months counted from visit # 2 as follows:          -  Visit # 3: It will take place 6 months after the visit # 2 and 14 months after the            initial visit. The patient will be evaluated clinically (without pacemaker programming)            by one of the researchers who will apply the SFSQ and SF-36 quality of life scales.          -  Visit # 4: It will take place 12 months after the visit # 2 and 20 months after the            initial visit. The patient will be evaluated clinically (without pacemaker programming)            by one of the researchers who will apply the SFSQ and SF-36 quality of life scales.        After this the study ends.        Procedures in case of Adverse Events: In the event of any adverse event related or not to the       implant or use of the device or any condition of the patient, the patient must notify the       group of researchers in the contact telephone numbers that are delivered and according to the       severity and needs of the event will be cited in an additional visit for clinical evaluation       and / or electrophysiology or will be redirected to the CES Clinic if the event or situation       requires management in the emergency department or intrahospital service. Each of these       adverse events must be reported on a form and a communication sent within 72 hours after the       group of researchers had knowledge of the Human Research Ethics Committee of the CES       University, making the event known to all. the details.
The primary objective of this study is to develop a protocol, consistent with DHHS/ Center       for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) guidelines and requirements to further document       safety in clinically indicated MR imaging in patients with implanted cardioverter       defibrillators (ICD's) and pacemakers.        MRI's will be conducted on patients who require a clinically indicated MRI only. All studies       will be done in the 1.5 Tesla MRI unit. ECG monitoring pads will be placed on the patients       for the duration of the study. An external defibrillator and Advance Cardiovascular Life       Support (ACLS) drugs will be on hand. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will also be       monitored non-invasively throughout the study. All devices will undergo a complete       interrogation prior to imaging. Parameters such as atrial and ventricular pacing thresholds,       R and P wave amplitudes, lead impedance, and battery status will be measured and recorded.       PPMs will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited mode in       patients without pacemaker dependence.        The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to       ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependant patients with ICDs will be       excluded.        In addition, there is a theoretical concern that patients who have capped or abandoned leads       in their chest may be at risk for heating. While there is little or no objective data to       support this concern, given this theoretical concern, patients in this category will only be       admitted to the study if the referring physician deems the MRI critical and after the PI has       carefully considered the risk/benefit ration for each patient who falls in to this category.        Similarly, there historically has also been a concern that newly implanted leads (<4 weeks)       are at risk for lead to dislodgement d/t possible torque from the MRI environment. This too       is only a theoretical concern and there is little or no scientific evidence to support this       claim. Nevertheless, patients with newly implanted pacemaker/ICD leads will be considered by       the PI for protocol inclusion only if the referring physician deems the MRI to be critical       and after considering the risk/benefit to each individual patient.        After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient's unique condition has been       completed, the device will be re-programmed to its original settings and completely       interrogated to detect any changes in device performance.
The Micra AV CED study is a study of the Medicare beneficiary population implanted with Micra       AV leadless pacemakers or dual-chamber transvenous pacemakers and will be executed by       analyzing administrative claims data. The study consists of two primary objectives: estimate       the (1) acute overall complication rate, and (2) the 2-year survival rate of patients       implanted with a Micra AV leadless pacemaker. As part of the secondary objectives of the       study, a comparative analysis of Micra AV leadless pacemakers to dual-chamber transvenous       pacemakers will be conducted.        The analysis will be in CMS claims data and is subject to a central IRB. However, individual       hospitals are not engaged in research and local IRB oversight is not necessary.
А multicenter research trial will be conducted at 6 medical centers:          -  Ryazan State Medical University (Ryazan);          -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the            Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Astrakhan);          -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the            Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Penza);          -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the            Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Chelyabinsk);          -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the            Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Kaliningrad);          -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the            Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Khabarovsk).        Haemostatic solution "Haemoblock" provided by Autonomous non-profit organization "MOSCOW       REGIONAL SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF BLOOD".        The study will include 200 patients with indications for pacemaker implantation       (atrioventricular block, sick sinus syndrome, atrial fibrillation with impaired       atrioventricular conduction or other).        Before starting the study, the patient must give written consent to participate in this study       after familiarizing him with the purpose and rules of the clinical study.        All patients during randomisation will be divided into 2 groups:        Group A "Haemoblock" - 100 patients. Haemostatic solution "Haemoblock" will be used after       pocket formation during pacemaker implantation (sterile gauze swabs are soaked in 15 ml of       "Haemoblock" solution and applied in pacemaker pocket, then pacemaker pocket will be       irrigated with 5 ml of "Haemoblock" solution without rinsing).        Group B "Control" - 100 patients. Same procedure will be performed with saline solution in       this group.        Before surgery blood sampling, echocardiography will be performed in all patients.        3-5 days after surgery ultrasound of pacemaker pocket will be performed in all patients.        The observation period for patients will be 30 days.
It has been more than 50 years after pacemaker device is developed. The subjects receiving       permanent pacemaker has been increased and the number of patients with pacemaker undergoing       surgery has been increased in company. However, in cases using electrocautery during surgery,       there is possibility of malfunction of pacemaker due to electromagnetic interference. The       factors associated with pacemaker malfunction during surgery have been reported; type of       pacemaker, intrinsic heart rate, pacemaker dependency, type of electrocautery, position of       generator, distance between generator/lead and electrocautery, duration and power of       electrical energy. Conventionally, mode change to VOO before surgery and use of bipolar       electrocautery are recommended before surgery but diverse suggestions regarding perioperative       pacemaker mode change has been raised. The investigators aimed to contemplate the necessity       of perioperative pacemaker mode change by prospective randomized trial. Patients with       permanent pacemaker undergoing surgery are randomized into two groups by 1:1 ratio. No mode       change is applied before surgery in the case group and VOO mode is applied before surgery in       the control group. Exclusion criteria is thoracic surgery, 100% pacemaker dependency and       unipolar pacing. The investigators will compare perioperative adverse events. The primary       endpoint is asystole and the secondary endpoint is cardiac arrest, pacing inhibition,       torsades de pointes and R on T.
Smart phone-based applications to identify cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIED) are       extremely useful in circumstances where urgent device interrogation is needed and device       identification card is not available. Few studies have provided insight regarding the utility       of these applications. We have studied two widely available applications i.e., Pacemaker ID       app (PMIDa) or Cardiac Rhythm Management Devices-Finder (CRMD-f) to identiy device       manufacturers in CIEDs.        547 patients who underwent CIED implantation from year 2016 - 2020 in our institute were       enrolled. There were 438 Medtronic and 109 St. Jude's devices. All chest radiographs were       de-identified and resized into 225*225 pixels focusing on the CIED. PMIDa and CRMD-f       applications were used to identify CIED. Accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, negative       predictive value, and positive predictive value for both applications were calculated and       compared.
Professional practice guidelines recommend that pacemakers be followed with at least one to       two in-office follow-ups per year, which is both a public health issue (the average time to       get a consultation with a cardiologist being 42 days) but also an economic issue considering       the number of patients implanted (Brignole EHJ 2013). Remote monitoring of pacemakers could       allow an optimization of the long-term follow-up of pacemaker recipients in hospitals.        Compared to CRT and ICD, few studies have highlighted the economic advantage of remote       monitoring with PM.        COMPAS study (Eur Heart J. 2012) demonstrated that remote monitoring is a safe alternative to       conventional care over a 2 year-follow-up. This study also demonstrated that long-term remote       monitoring of pacemakers decreased the number of ambulatory visits and enabled the early       detection of important clinical and device-related adverse events.        As the study shows data up to 18 months, this is not sufficient to define the benefit of       telecardiology in this population of patients.        SETAM study (Pacing Clin Electrophysiol 2017) demonstrated the benefit of remote monitoring       showing an earlier diagnosis and management of atrial arrhythmias and a subsequently       reduction of atrial fibrillation (AF) burden. The incidence and prevalence of AF is expected       to increase with time, resulting in significant societal and economic impact.        Neither COMPAS nor SETAM were designed as economic evaluations        TELEPACE study proposes the first economic evaluation of an exclusive follow-up by       Home-Monitoring of patients implanted with pacemaker for a period of 4 years.        All patients will be implanted with a single or dual chamber pacemaker according the       implantation guidelines. Patients enrolled will be then randomized to a control group or an       active group:          -  The patients randomized in the control group will be followed accordingto the            guidelines; i.e. with an in-office follow-up at 30 days post-implantation and after            followed with in-office follow-ups according toclinical practice.          -  Active group: in-office follow-up at 30 days post-implantation and after by remote            monitoring (daily) without scheduled in-office follow-up during the study period (48            months). A remote FU will be planned every 9 months.        Consequently, compared to the guidelines, the patients in the active group will be followed       according to the guidelines; except for the in-office follow-ups annually.        By collecting real costs directly on health insurance reimbursement bases (SNIIRAM), this       study will define the medico-economic benefit of remote monitoring of pacemakers.        A cost-utility analysis is needed to address the question. The use of QALYs is not intended       to demonstrate a difference in clinical efficacy but to ensure that efficacy and costs are       studied simultaneously which is required in order to avoid risk inflation when differences in       efficacy and costs are studied sequentially.        If there is no significant differences in QALYs (as expected) but there are savings in terms       of HSR then the cost-utility ratio will allow to estimate a "net benefit criterion" (NBC)       that translates QALYs into money as follows: NBC = WTP.(differences in QALYs) - (differences       in costs) where WTP represents the (societal) willingness to pay a QALY.        If there is no differences in QALYs the NBC will then reduce to a cost-minimisation calculus       (WTP.(diff QALYs) = 0).        Cost-minimisation alone can only be used (HAS regards it as a sub-category of       cost-effectiveness analysis whose use has to be duly justified) provided that there is strong       evidence of equivalence in terms of clinical efficacy. If this is not the case, a       cost-utility analysis will be more relevant as it will test simultaneously for both       differences in efficacy and in costs.        Moreover, the study will confrim the safety of telecardiology and evaluate patients'       individual preferences for the different management strategies.
Micra CED study is a study of the Medicare beneficiary population implanted with       single-chamber ventricular pacemakers, and will be executed by analyzing administrative       claims data. The study consists of two primary objectives: estimate the: (1) acute overall       complication rate and (2) the 2-year survival rate of patients implanted with a Micra       leadless pacemaker. As part of the secondary objectives of the study, a comparative analysis       of Micra leadless pacemakers to single-chamber ventricular transvenous pacemakers will be       conducted.        The analysis will be in CMS claims data and is subject to a central IRB. However, individual       hospitals are not engaged in research and local IRB oversight is not necessary.
nan
The principle of the nerve stimulation technique consists of using a battery powered       peripheral nerve stimulator to generate electrical stimuli through an insulated needle at       appropriate anatomical locations. The electrical impulses then trigger depolarization as       insulated needle approaches the target nerve bundles. Braun Stimuplex, a common nerve       stimulator used for peripheral nerve localization, is currently being used in the United       States and other countries. Previous studies have suggested it to be a reliable stimulator       for the purpose of peripheral nerve blocks. The operational manual however indicated that       this device should not be used in patients with cardiac pacemaker because malfunction of the       pacemaker may occur. Literature search on the topic of pacemaker interference from peripheral       nerve stimulator showed that there was one case of pacemaker interference caused by       activation of a nerve stimulator, resulting in cardiac arrest in a patient with a fixed-rate       ventricular pacemaker. Studies and case reports suggest that unipolar electrode seems to be       most susceptible to interferences from electrosurgical equipment, TENS unit, spinal cord       stimulators. Perhaps this is the reason why the manufacturer of the peripheral nerve       stimulator recommends against the use of peripheral nerve stimulator in patients with       pacemakers. With the advancements of modern pacemakers technology, it is our experience;       interscalene nerve blocks and other peripheral nerve blocks using the nerve stimulator can be       performed in patients with pacemakers without notable interferences with pacemaker functions       and perhaps the initial recommendation by the peripheral nerve stimulator manufacturer can be       modified. In this prospective pilot study, we proposed to evaluate the effects of left       interscalene stimulation (most likely scenario to interfere with pacemaker function) by       varying the configurations of the pacemaker leads (unipolar vs. bipolar pacer lead       configuration) and by varying the positions of the positive electrode of the stimulator.
The investigators had experienced not infrequent occurrences of temporary electrode       associated tamponade, either acutely after Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI)       completion, or delayed, in association with the electrode removal.        The tamponade rate in patients with a temporary pacemaker(PMK) was 14/150 (9.3%). Not all       tamponade cases were related to the temporary PMK, 2 occurred in the setting of catastrophic       annular rupture and one of the first cases was related to the Left Ventricle stiff wire.        The investigators also noted a significant prolongation of bed rest and hospital stay in       patients with temporary PMK.        Using a flexible permanent pacing electrode which is actively fixed to the Right Ventricle       and is placed through the jugular vein will reduce pacing-related complication rates (due to       the flexibility of the electrode), time to ambulation (due to the fixation of the electrode),       hospital stay and also unnecessary PMK. Cost will also be reduced due to prevention of       complications and reduction in Intensive Cardiac Care Unit time.        Procedure time might be slightly prolonged since the placement of the standard electrode is       more timely, however this prolongation is negligible, and the benefits of the flexible       permanent pacing electrode are worth this prolongation
nan
Medtronic pacemakers provide rate response pacing by utilizing dual zone programming to       specify an "activities of daily living" (ADL) response rate and an "exertion" response rate.       There is much data to support the target heart rate for an exercise response but the data to       support the programming of the ADL rate is lacking.        Unpublished Holter data from our center indicates that the ADL rate for most patients in our       practice is between 50-70bpm rather than 95bpm. Moreover, this increased ADL rate may impact       diastolic filling times and adversely impact cardiac output.
The adverse cardiac outcomes due to right ventricular apical pacing with dual chamber       pacemakers have been widely observed such as ventricular dyssynchrony resulting in reduced       left ventricular function, increased risk of heart failure and atrial fibrillation. To       minimize the ventricular pacing, manufacturers of pacemaker have made an effort to develop       special algorithms designed to deliver right ventricular pacing only in case of demonstrated       persistent long PR interval or repetitively lacking intrinsic ventricular activation.        Currently, there are three methods and algorithms are available with a pacemaker from the       Biotronik SE & Co. KG to minimize right ventricular pacing as follows; DDD mode with fixed       longer atrioventricular (AV) delay than intrinsic conduction time; Intrinsic rhythm support       (IRSplus); Ventricular pacing suppression (VpS).        In the real world, it is the most common practice to program the DDD(R) mode with fixed long       AV delay because of physician's concerns about the possible failure of an algorithm or long       pause being resulted from 2 consecutive loss of AV conduction by the algorithm. However, the       main disadvantage of a fixed with long AV delay is that the prolonged total atrial refractory       period (TARP) results in changes of the upper rate behavior (i.e., pseudo-Wenckebach AV block       and subsequently 2:1 block at lower atrial tracking rates). The possibility of       pacemaker-mediated tachycardia is getting high if the post-ventricular atrial refractory       period (PVARP) is shortened to compensate. Furthermore, there is a high chance to have       fusion/pseudo-fusion of ventricular pacing in a fixed long AV delay because the AV conduction       is dynamic according to the heart rate.        The recent systematic review showed that there are no significant differences between the       pacing modes for mortality, heart failure, stroke, and atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients       with sinus node dysfunction (SND) without AV block. However, the dual chamber pacemaker is       still recommended in patients with SND due to lack of tools to identify patients at high risk       of developing the complete AV block. The meta-analysis about the effect of the reduction in       unnecessary ventricular pacing using a sophisticated algorithm in patients with SND showed       there are no benefits in clinical outcomes compared with conventional DDD mode. But the       percentage of ventricular pacing in ventricular pacing reduction modality group was not       negligible between 1~11.5%. The result might be changed if we have data with a more       significant reduction in ventricular pacing using difference algorithm. The recent study       using IRSplus and VpS algorithm from Biotronik pacemaker showed the significant reduction in       ventricular pacing to less than 3%.        The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of IRSplus and VpS algorithm compared       with conventional DDD pacing with a fixed AV delay.
nan
In the past, MR scans were always contraindicated for pacemaker patients. If particular       prerequisites and conditions are fulfilled, MR scans can now be conducted on patients with       BIOTRONIK's EVIA/ENTOVIS pacemakers in combination with the Safio S pacemaker leads,       scheduled to be part of this clinical study.        The specific MRI conditions for this investigation with the EVIA/ENTOVIS pacemaker family and       Safio S pacemaker leads are defined in the study protocol
Atrial Fibrillation is the most common Heart Rhythm Disorder requiring therapy.
nan
nan
The purpose of this registry is to gain a better understanding of how diagnostic capabilities       in four Vitatron pacemakers (Selection AFm, Clarity, C-Series, and T-Series) are being       utilized for the clinical management of a general pacing population. Pacemaker information       and health status is collected from all patients enrolled.
Studies in children with heart diseases suggest that physical activity levels are reduced       relative to their peers, which in turn increases cardiovascular risk factors and cardiac       rhythm problems. To the best of our knowledge, physical fitness and objectively measured       physical activity levels of children with a pacemaker have not been studied. The aim of this       study was to evaluate physical fitness and physical activity levels of pediatric arrhythmia       patients with a pacemaker compared with their healthy peers.        Investigators enrolled clinically stable pediatric patients and used the echocardiogram to       evaluate cardiac functions of all patients. Physical fitness was assessed using the Munich       Physical Fitness Test (MFT). The SenseWear Armband metabolic Holter device was used to record       the physical activity level for consecutive 7 days.
nan
The purpose of the study is to compare the diagnostic accuracy of the ZIO xt , MoMe,       TECHNOMED pocket ECG and Nuubo to the R-test, our current standard clinical practice, in       detection of AF burden, in patients with history of Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation and have a       dual chamber pacemaker or ICD in situ, with sensitivity and specificity of AF detection       calculated from the implanted pacemaker monitored beat to beat holters.
This study will be performed as part of a regulated, prospective, non-randomized,       multi-center clinical study.        Subjects will be enrolled, undergo a clinically-indicated MRI scan, and have an assessment of       adverse events, device measurements, and clinical utility of the MRI scan images.
All patients booked for pacemaker clinic 6w following a new implant for heart block will       receive an information sheet with their appointment letter. Potential participants will       attend the National Institute of Health Research Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General       Infirmary. Each participant will sign a consent form and undergo a baseline echocardiogram, a       quality of life assessment (EQ5D-5L), and blood tests including B-type natriuretic peptide       measurement. The investigators will record demographic and clinical variables including       co-morbidities and current medication.        Patients will be allocated in a 1:2 allocation stratified for atrial rhythm (atrial       fibrillation or sinus rhythm) to either standard care (sham programming) or intervention       (protocolised pacing-avoidance programming. Patients will be called at 1w to ensure short       term acceptability and safety and then reviewed at 3m after the implant. At that visit, a       pacing check will establish the amount of RV pacing required. Those pacing >40% despite       optimised programming will be asked to undergo a cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) scan and       will be randomly allocated to Lisinopril 5mg (ACEi) or no treatment. They will take one       tablet daily and the dose will be increased 2 weekly to the maximally tolerated dose or 20mg       daily. This will be supervised by the HF nurse. All patients will be reviewed at a further 6m       (9m after their pacemaker procedure) with a repeat echocardiogram, blood test for BNP, QoL       assessment, and those in phase two (lisinopril or not) will undergo a repeat CMR scan.        Choice of endpoints Left ventricular remodelling is a widely accepted surrogate endpoint in       clinical studies, and therapy-related changes in LV structure and function are related       morbidity/mortality outcomes. A 5% increase in mean LVEF was associated with an odds ratio       (OR) of 0.86 [95%CI 0.77-0.96] for one-year mortality. LV end diastolic volume (LVEDV) also       demonstrates a reliable link to mortality outcomes. A decrease of 10ml is associated with an       OR of 0.95 [0.94-0.97] for one-year mortality, whilst a decrease in LV end systolic volume       (LVESV) of 10ml is associated with an OR of 0.96 [0.93-0.98] for mortality at 1yr. The       investigators will also measure change in indexed volumes such as LVESVi which is frequently       used in pacemaker studies. A reduction in LVESVi of ≥15% is associated with better outcome in       recipients of a CRT device.        Safety and patient tolerability The protocol of minimising unnecessary RV pacing was well       tolerated. ACEi are well-tolerated with fewer than 15% of HF patients unable to tolerate any       dose of short-acting enalapril. We expect a lower rate of discontinuation since patients will       not have HF and lisinopril is longer-acting. In the Assessment of Treatment with Lisinopril       and Survival study (ATLAS), there was adverse effect rate of 4.6% and symptomatic hypotension       in 1%. Higher doses were associated with a greater effect, and the discontinuation rate was       not related to dose. The investigators conservatively estimate that 10% patients will not       tolerate ACEi.        Statistical considerations In estimating sample size, the investigators have followed the       rules of thumb for pilot studies proposed by Browne to use at least 30 subjects, and the       suggestions of Julious to include at least 12 subjects per treatment arm, and Teare et al for       70 subjects in total. The investigators have assumed that 20% will not have complete heart       block at their 6w check, such that if they consent 75 patients, 60 will go through to       randomisation, of whom 20 will be allocated standard care (group 1) and 40 will be randomly       allocated to optimised pacing (group 2). Those in group 2 still pacing >40% in the RV, will       be randomly allocated lisinopril or not in a 1:1 ratio. In addition to exploring the effects       of an ACEi on pacing-induced remodelling using CMR in patients with no programming options,       they will also be able to compare 6m remodelling in three groups using echocardiography:       pacing <40% (n=25), pacing ≥40% (n=35), and pacing ≥40% but taking an ACEi (n=15).        Feasibility In Leeds, 35% of 450 patients receiving an RV pacemaker have heart block (n=160).       Around 20% will be excluded due to an ejection fraction <45% (n=32) and a further 20% (n=26)       will already be taking an ACE inhibitor. This leaves a pool of 100 people annually who might       be eligible. An anonymised study log of people receiving a pacemaker for heart block but       excluded for other reasons will be maintained until recruitment is completed.        Blinding The programming will be blinded but ACEi allocation will be open-label.       Echocardiography and CMR scans will be performed/administered/reported by a blinded cardiac       physiologist or CMR technician and physician. An unblinded cardiac physiologist will be       available at each visit for programming questions.        Data analysis:        Statistical analysis plan The primary endpoint will be change in LVEF at 9m post-implant.       Secondary outcomes will include other remodelling variables (LVEDV, LVESV), quality of life       (EQ5D-5L), and estimated battery longevity at 9m. Patients will be analysed according to       their randomised allocation and the difference between groups estimated using a general       linear model adjusting for baseline LVEF. Analysis of other endpoints will use similar       methods.
nan
Exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) improves clinical outcomes in patients with       cardiovascular diseases. However, few data exist regarding the role of early short-term CR in       patients undergoing pacemaker (PM) implantation. The investigators assessed whether       short-term CR following PM implantation was enough to improve both physical function and       quality of life (QOL).
Patients (n=70) with long-term (>2 years) permanent pacemakers with avoidable RV pacing will       be invited to participate in a single-centre, phase II, randomised, double-blind       placebo-controlled trial of optimised pacing programming versus standard care. Those       randomised to the intervention arm will have personalised programming to avoid right       ventricular pacing, whilst those allocated to standard care will have no programming changes       made. All participants will be invited back at 6 months for a repeat echocardiogram, quality       of life assessment (EQ-5D-5L), blood tests and pacemaker check.
The target study population will comprise patients with permanent atrial fibrillation with       mild or moderate myocardial dysfunction according to the American consensus echocardiography       and the classical indication for pacemaker by Brazilian Guidelines for Cardiac Implantable       Electronic Devices Guidelines and the American Heart Association. Primary goal: Assess       whether resynchronization achieved by bifocal right ventricle pacing has influence on serum       levels of natriuretic peptides and whether this could be used as a measure of success.       Secondary goal: To compare clinical parameters,compare electrocardiographic parameters (QRS       complex stimulated) in ventricular apical position and ventricular bifocal position, assess       quality of life by questionnaire Minnesota Living With Heart Failure. Will be implanted       pacemaker endocardial bifocal, with placement of a ventricular endocardial electrode in the       septal region and another in right ventricle apical, as adopted in the conduct of Pacemaker       sector under local anesthesia and sedation. After pacemaker implantation, patients will be       randomized in a 1:1 ratio to apical or bifocal stimulation. Patients remained in this mode of       stimulation for two months, after which they will be subjected to the following sequence of       reviews: Clinical assessment (functional classification of heart failure);assessment of       quality of life by the Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire, 12-lead       electrocardiogram at rest, with measurements of stimulated QRS duration, evaluation of the       parameters of the pacemaker, serum level of peptides. At the end of this period of       evaluation, patients will undergo cross-over groups, those in apical ventricular pacing will       be allocated in the bifocal group and the last one will be allocated to apical ventricular       pace. Patients will be retained in the new pacing mode for two months, and at the end of this       period will be submitted to clinical, laboratory and assessment of pacemaker evaluation as       well. At the end of the study, all patients will be kept in bifocal ventricular pacing, as       advocated in the conduct of Pacemaker sector.
Many patients with heart failure exhibit a distinctive abnormal cyclical breathing pattern,       'periodic breathing'. This means that patients have a worse prognosis and they have       debilitating symptoms including breathlessness, fatigue and disrupted sleep. Many of these       patients also have cardiac pacemakers fitted, to improve their heart function. We have       discovered a new physiological mechanism linking the heart and lungs, and have shown that by       changing the programmed settings of a cardiac pacemakers, we can change a patient's       breathing. If we increase the programmed pacing heart rate, we increase the rate of delivery       of carbon dioxide to the lungs temporarily, which increases ventilation. When we reduce the       programmed pacing heart rate, the converse happens. We aim to demonstrate this phenomenon       scientifically, and to use this information to stabilise periodic breathing in heart failure       patients using pacemakers. We then plan to continue to investigate whether we can show that       sleep quality is improved in heart failure patients with periodic breathing, by our pacing       protocol.
nan
nan
nan
The aim of this study is to investigate the percentage of reduction of ventricular pacing       using the VpS feature of the EVIA/ENTOVIS pacemaker in a controlled clinical investigation.
Recent studies suggest that chronic right ventricular pacing is associated with a variety of       adverse effects in patients, particularly those with intact or intermittent atrioventricular       (AV) conduction.        Medtronic Adapta® pacemakers include Managed Ventricular Pacing®, a pacing mode designed to       promote intrinsic conduction, and also Search AV™+, a feature designed to reduce unnecessary       ventricular pacing in patients with intact or intermittent AV conduction.
Investigate the effect of external diaphragmatic pacemaker on chronic cor pulmonale, the       indicators include: respiratory muscle force, diaphragmatic degree of excursion and       thickness, pulmonary artery pressure, respiratory distress, feeling of fatigue and quality of       life, pulmonary function,NT-proBNP,PaO2 and PaCO2.
The MagnaSafe Registry is an investigator initiated study designed to determine the risks of       performing MRI for patients with pacemakers and Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators       (ICDs). We hope that the results of the registry will provide physicians the risk-assessment       data needed to assess the use of MRI as a diagnostic tool when no alternative diagnostic       imaging technology is appropriate.        The number of patients living with permanent pacemakers or ICD devices in the United States       is increasing dramatically as a result of expanded indications. Between 1990 and 2005, an       estimated 2.8 million pacemakers and 690,000 ICDs were implanted in the United States. The       number of implanted devices continues to increase without an apparent plateau.        Magnetic resonance is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of many diseases of       the brain, spinal cord, and musculoskeletal system. For some disease states, no acceptable       alternative diagnostic imaging method is available. As the number of implanted cardiac       devices is increasing, the clinical indications for MRI are expanding as well. Marketing       research estimates that approximately 27.5 million MRI procedures were completed in 2007 (The       Medical Information Division of IMV, LTD). It is predicted that there is a 50-75% probability       that a patient with a pacemaker or ICD will have the need for an MRI over the lifetime of the       device.        Most physicians consider the presence of a pacemaker or ICD to be an absolute       contraindication to an MRI study. Patients are denied the examination, even when MR is       clearly the superior diagnostic modality or when there is no acceptable alternative imaging       test available. To provide optimal care to the increasing number of patients with an       implanted cardiac device, health care professionals must have the capability to perform MR       imaging with minimal risk and full knowledge of the possible complications.        The present study will create a registry of patients with pacemakers and ICDs who will       undergo clinically indicated MRI and will document any adverse event or change in device       parameters that may be associated with the imaging procedure. The results of this registry       will provide the medical community with an accurate documentation of risk to patients and       will establish a protocol of patient screening and device reprogramming for the purpose of       maximizing the safe performance of MRI as a diagnostic tool in patients with implantable       cardiac devices when indicated.        This is a physician-initiated study that will be coordinated by Scripps Clinic, Green       Hospital. It is being performed under an IDE from the FDA. Funding for the MagnaSafe Registry       comes from multiple sources including competitive grants, institutional grants, foundation       fellowship support, unrestricted educational grants from industry, and philanthropy.        Scripps Clinic/Green Hospital, La Jolla, CA, has performed more than 125 MRIs on patients       with implanted cardiac devices. Results of retrospective clinical observations at Scripps       Clinic were presented at the American Heart Association 2008 Scientific and American College       of Cardiology 2009 Scientific Sessions.        Up to 35 sites will be recruited to participate in the registry. The registry uses a protocol       designed to minimize potential risk to the patient and device. MRI compatible equipment will       be required to monitor vital signs (non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximeter,       and single lead cardiac rhythm monitor) while performing scans on patients with implanted       devices. Recommendations from the American Heart Association for performance of MR       examination in patients with pacemakers or ICDs will be followed.        The MRI procedures will be conducted for clinical purposes at the discretion of the ordering       physician. MR examination of patients with permanent implanted cardiac devices will only be       performed if there are highly compelling circumstances and when the benefits clearly outweigh       the risks in the opinion of the ordering physician. The decision to have an MRI must be based       on clinical indication, and is not part of the research protocol.        Those wishing to participate in the registry as an investigational site will be required to       obtain approval of the FDA-authorized protocol from their reviewing IRB, and complete a       written investigator agreement.
Heart failure patients with pacemaker will be included. Primary outcome measurement is       respiratory muscle strength, secondary outcomes are functional exercise capacity, peripheral       muscle strength, pulmonary functions, maximal exercise capacity, fatigue, quality of life,       depression, physical activity.
The purpose of this study was to compare the changes of cardiac function within 1month in       pacemaker-dependent patients between LBBP and RVOP. A single-center prospective random       controlled clinical study was conducted in 60 patients with bradycardia indications. 30       patients underwent RVOP and 30 patients underwent LBBP. The changes of BNP, echocardiogram       and speckle-tracking echocardiagraphy, six minutes walk test and quality of life were       compared between the two groups before and within 1month. The etiology of pacemaker       implantation included high atrioventricular block, atrial fibrillation with slow arrhythmia.       Implantation procedures: Left bundle branch pacing was achieved by trans-interventricular       septum method in the basal ventricular septum and performed by using the Select pacing 3830       lead(Medtronic Inc, USA) delivered through a fixed sheath(7F C315 HIS, Medtronic Inc, USA).       During implantation, a unipolar configuration is used for pacing and recording. The delivery       sheath was inserted through left subclavian vein into atrial side of the tricuspid valve to       mark His bundle potential under right anterior oblique(20°) fluoroscopic view. As a marker in       His bundle region, the sheath with the lead tip was further advanced towards the right side       of the ventricular septum approximately 1.5-2cm, and paced QRS morphology showing left bundle       branch block(LBBB) at output of 2V/0.4ms. When the sheath with the lead tip screwed to the       left side of the septum, paced QRS morphology changed from LBBB to right bundle branch       block(RBBB), a gradual change of the notch morphology("W" waveform) in lead V1 gradually       shifted and finally disappeared.Another active electrode is implanted in the right       auricle.Patients with RVOP: The right ventricular pacing lead was positioned in the low       intervals of right ventricular outflow tract, and atrial active lead was positioned at right       auricle. BNP was measured routinely before implantation and reexamined on 1 day and 1month       after pacemaker implantation.Twelve-lead ECG were recorded including QRS duration, QRS       amplitude and QT interval. Echocardiography data were measured by conventional transthoracic       echocardiography system including left atrial anteroposterior dimension, left atrial       transverse dimension, left atrial vertical dimension, e', peak E-wave velocity, peak A-wave       velocity, E/A, E/e', left atrial ejection fraction (LAEF), left ventricular ejection fraction       (LVEF), velocity-time integration of aortic blood flow(VTI). Left atrial strain and strain       rate were measured by speckle-tracking echocardiography(STE).We also measure the six minutes       walk test and quality of life in all patients before and after implantation in 1month.
The MRI Study is a prospective, multi-center, clinical study designed to evaluate the safety       and efficacy of the Accent MRI System in a patient population indicated for implant of a       pacemaker within and outside of the MRI environment. The study consisted of two phases, a       Lead Safety Phase which evaluated the safety of the Tendril MRI lead, and an MRI Phase which       evaluated the safety and efficacy of the Accent MRI pacemaker system in an MRI environment.        The safety and efficacy of the Accent MRI pacemaker and Tendril MRI lead will be evaluated as       described below:        Lead Safety Safety of the Tendril MRI™ lead will be evaluated in terms of freedom from right       atrial (RA) and right ventricle (RV) lead-related complications at implant to 2 months (acute       timeframe), and at the 2 through the 12 month visit (chronic timeframe).        MRI Safety The safety of the Accent MRI™ system will be evaluated in terms of freedom from       MRI scan related complications in the month following the MRI scan.        Lead Efficacy Efficacy of the Tendril MRI™ lead will be evaluated in terms of the change in       atrial and ventricular capture and sensing thresholds before and after the MRI scan.        MRI Efficacy Efficacy of the Tendril MR lead will be evaluated in terms of the change in       bipolar atrial and ventricular capture and sensing thresholds before and after the MRI scan.        Secondary Endpoints Safety Safety of the Accent MRI™ system will be evaluated in terms of       freedom from system-related complications through the 12 month visit.        Efficacy Efficacy of the Tendril MRI™ lead will be evaluated in terms of the atrial and       ventricular capture thresholds at the MRI Visit.
nan
Since pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) have been used, there       have been questions about what external sources interference could alter their functioning or       event recording properties. Because these devices are often intended to be life-saving, their       proper functioning is of critical importance.        The literature documents a number of common sources of possible interference. Interference       with MRI and electrocautery have been observed (1, 2). Outside the hospital, store security       devices and personal digital assistants (PDAs) have been evaluated (3, 4). In 1997, Hayes et       al published a randomized, prospective trial concluding that cellular telephones impacted the       functioning of pacemakers, but that they did not seem to have any effect at any significant       distance (5). They showed that a phone being used at the ear was sufficiently far away to       prevent a health risk and recommended that phones not be put in shirt pockets or used near       the device.        Unlike phones, which are commonly held to the ear, music is now available via portable MP3       players and they can be held almost anywhere. Thaker et al state that Apple iPods cause       pacemaker interference in 50% of their patients, with over-sensing in 20% of patients,       telemetry interference in 29% of patients and pacemaker inhibition in 1.2% of patients (6).       The mean age for their sample was 76.1 years +/- 8.6 years. We anticipate that a higher       proportion of teenagers and kids who have pacemakers use portable MP3 players than in the       elderly adult population.        Design Prospective observational study a single tertiary care center.        Subjects        The electrophysiology department at Children's Hospital, Boston follows a large number of       patients with pacemakers and ICDs. Approximately 15 patients are seen each week in clinic for       routine pacemaker evaluation.        Entry Criteria We will include the first 100 patients with pacemakers and ICDs who consent       for the prospective trial.          1. Consent for participation          2. Active pacemaker/ICD, which is functioning appropriately at the time of interrogation            based on internal diagnostics and the judgment of an appropriate clinician            (electrophysiology nurse, fellow and/or attending.          3. Normally functioning leads and thresholds at the time of interrogation based on internal            diagnostics and the judgment of an appropriate clinician (electrophysiology nurse,            fellow and/or attending.        Variables        Primary Outcome Change in pacemaker sensing thresholds, pacing thresholds, telemetry       interference or pacemaker inhibition.        Methods        Study investigators will first obtain informed consent from each patient or family and, where       appropriate, assent from the child.        At the conclusion of their routine clinic visit, each patient will have his or her pacemaker       attached to the appropriate proprietary interrogation system for their pacemaker device. We       will then monitor the pacemaker/ICD system while placing a series of portable music devices       at various distances from the pacemaker/ICD system: (1) 2cm, (2) 30cm, (3) 100cm. At each       distance the pacemaker will be re-interrogated for changes in pacemaker sensing thresholds,       pacing thresholds, telemetry interference or pacemaker inhibition. At the end of the testing       process, the devices will be removed from near the patient and the device will be       interrogated again to assure that the device is at the appropriate clinical settings.        Risks        We believe that there are no more than minimal risks associated with this study. The       principle intervention is the placement of a music device near the pacemaker/ICD during the       time of pacemaker monitoring. We consider this risk to be similar to the risks encountered by       many patients who are currently using portable music devices outside the hospital. In       addition, we do not expect any permanent change in the pacemaker or ICD settings, thresholds       or functioning.        Statistical Issues        Hypothesis Our hypothesis is that the close approximation of portable MP3 players interfere       with the appropriate sensing and recording of pacemakers and ICDs.        Sample Size and Power Calculations We intend to conduct a descriptive study, tabulating the       number of times that a pacemaker or ICD has changes in the sensing thresholds, pacing       thresholds, telemetry interference or pacemaker inhibition when exposed to a series of       portable MP3 players at various distances. In addition, we will describe the nature and       quantitative differences of those changes.        Because we do not intend to do comparisons for significance against a control group, we have       chosen 100 patients as a reasonable sample size for evaluating possible changes in       pacemaker/ICD function.
nan
nan
Patients with implanted pacemakers are currently seen by their cardiologists every 6-12       months. Shorter follow-up intervals are generally seen as excessive workload for the       physician, with little benefit for the patient. Longer intervals are seen as too dangerous       concerning device integrity and safety. This scheme still results in a large number of       follow-up visits with little or no important changes in pacemaker therapy. On the other hand,       in some patients there are quicker changes in their cardiac situation and the need for       subsequent adaptation of pacemaker programming, which cannot be detected and properly treated       with standard follow-up scheme.        Our clinical trial investigates efficacy and safety of the Home Monitoring technology for       increasing the flexibility in pacemaker follow-up. Home Monitoring technology allows       automatic transmission via mobile phone links of relevant data from the implanted pacemaker       to a service center. The patient's physician can access the data via a password-protected       internet site. The regular Home Monitoring data analyses entirely replace clinical routine       visits ("virtual clinic"). Follow-up visits are scheduled according to the results of the       Home Monitoring data analyses.        For the primary endpoint, the total workload for pacemaker patient care in the virtual clinic       is compared to that of a standard follow-up scheme with regular clinic visits. The total       workload comprises the time for data analyses, clinical examinations, and other patient       contacts.        Secondary endpoints investigate adverse events rate, quality of life, and total costs, as       mirrored by direct patient's expenses, and patient travel and waiting time, for visits to the       pacer clinic as well as to additional cardiologist's or internal medicine doctor's services.        Standard vs. virtual follow-up. For the standard follow-up group patients, routine follow-up       visits are scheduled 1 month and 12 months after pre-discharge control, and then every 12       months. A follow-up at 6 months after discharge is optional. For the virtual clinic group       patients, a routine follow-up visit is scheduled 1 month after pre-discharge control. The       Home Monitoring data analyses have to be performed 12 months after discharge, and then every       12 months. If a 6-month follow-up is routinely done for the standard group in the clinic, a       6-month Home Monitoring data analysis has to be done as well. Event reports have to be       analysed within 24 hours during working days.
nan
General Approach: This study is a prospective, non-randomized, unblinded case series of       patients with permanent pacemakers or implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs)       undergoing medically-required MRI scanning, followed for a 12 month period. MRI scanning will       be performed using accepted, standard protocols using FDA-approved equipment.        Methods and Materials: Patients will be enrolled over a 60-month period by the Principal       Investigator (PI) and/or Sub-Investigator (Sub-I), at the Regional Heart Center, located at       St. Mary's Medical Center, Essentia Health, Duluth, MN, during evaluations for       medically-required MRI scanning. Eligible patients includes any person with a permanent       pacemaker or ICD implanted for at least 6 weeks, referred for a medically-required MRI scan       by a physician not participating in the trial. ICD generators must have been market released       after 2001. Both pacemaker dependent and non-dependent patients are eligible. The primary       endpoint is any change greater than 1 V at a pulse width of 0.5 ms in a pacemaker or ICD lead       at any time within 12 months of the MRI scan.        On the day of the MRI scan, the pacemaker or ICD will be interrogated and programmed per       usual practice at Essentia Health for patients undergoing an MRI scan with device in place.       Three separate baseline capture threshold measurements (V) will be obtained at a fixed pulse       width of 0.5 msec. Three separate baseline measurements will also be made of lead pacing       impedances (Ohms) and sensed P- or R-waves (mV) using programmer default methods. Histograms       will be cleared. Leads will be programmed to bipolar modality. If the patient is not device       dependent, the device will be programmed to ODO/OVO/OAO mode (monitor only) if available,       otherwise it will be reprogrammed to DDI or VVI mode with a lower rate of 40 bpm with pacing       outputs programmed to subthreshold levels in all leads. If the participant is device       dependent, the device will be programmed to an asynchronous pacing modality (DOO/VOO) with       maximum pacing output. If the patient has an ICD, therapies will be disabled. The attending       investigator may alter the pacing modality during the course of the scan if he or she deems       it necessary to maximize patient safety or comfort. Rate responsiveness, any rate       enhancements including Ventricular Rate Regulation mode, and magnet mode will be turned off.        During MRI scanning, resuscitation equipment will be available. If the participant is       pacemaker dependent, the study PI or sub-I must be in the MRI suite during the scan. If the       participant is not pacemaker dependent, then a pacemaker nurse will be in the MRI suite to       perform pre- and post-checks, and an electrophysiologist will be available in the building       for questions and troubleshooting. Patients will be asked to report all symptoms including:       palpitations; pain; heat or warmth sensation; device movement; or light-headedness.        Scans will be performed using usual protocols with standard peak Specific Absorption Rate       (SAR) limitations for the scan. The MRI scans will be evaluated for any artifact created by       the pacemaker system. During the scan, continuous electrocardiographic and pulse oxymetry       with waveform monitoring will be performed using usual protocols. Following the scan, repeat       thresholds will be performed for each lead and histograms will be obtained. Three separate       capture threshold measurements (V) will be obtained immediately after the patient leaves the       scanner room at a fixed pulse width of 0.5 msec. Three separate measurements will also be       made immediately following the scan of the lead pacing impedances (Ohms) and sensed P- or       R-waves (mV) using programmer default methods. Participants who are pacemaker dependent will       undergo a one-hour post-scan check using the same threshold protocol. These one-hour post       scan measurements will be performed either in the pacemaker clinic if the patient is an       outpatient or in the hospital if the patient is an inpatient. Any stored events detected on       the device as electromagnetic interference (EMI) artifact during the scan may be retrieved       and stored to diskette for later analysis. The pacemaker or ICD will be reprogrammed to       original settings prior to discharge from the MRI suite unless the attending investigator       deems it necessary to alter device setting to maximize patient safety or comfort. If the       patient has an ICD, the capacitor will be reformed and charge time noted prior to dismissal       from the MRI suite.        Patients will be followed up in the pacemaker clinic at 3 and 12 months from the MRI scan       using usual clinic protocols for device follow-up. If a patient undergoes a second MRI scan,       the follow-up schedule will be set based upon the most recent MRI scan.
Cardiovascular Diseases are a major cause of global morbidity and mortality, being       responsible according to the World Health Organization of the 30% of overall mortality.        Since 2001 that the first pacemaker of remote monitoring was implanted in Europe, more than       300,000 pacemaker have been implanted around the world. Despite this sharp expansion, the       scientific evidence on economic evaluations of pacemaker with remote monitoring is very       limited, and in our knowledge, studies including informal costs have not been conducted.        In the field of cardiology, telemedicine allows consultations with patients through       monitoring systems and remote communication analyzing the ongoing heart rates of people with       pacemakers, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cardiac resynchronization therapy and       subcutaneous Holter. The use of remote monitoring may save time and efforts to both       healthcare professionals and patients, including their informal caregivers, reducing the       number of follow up visits to the hospital and reducing the associated costs with patient       follow-up, which will help to improve sustainability of healthcare services.        During the 12 months of study, the patients with implant of pacemakers of both groups will be       assessed of the same parameters, in 4 different moments (pre-implant and months 1, 6, 12 and       5 years post-implantation).        The study will estimate: 1) The Clinical features of the patients. 2) The effectiveness       through of administration of health-related quality of life, functional capacity       questionnaires and 3) Finally, the hospital and informal costs of patients with pacemakers       will be estimated by the researches.
Sick sinus syndrome is a common indication for permanent cardiac pacing in the community. It       results from disordered impulse generation within the sinus node or impaired conduction of       the impulse to the surrounding atrial tissue, thus leading to the clinical manifestation of       bradycardia. In patients with SSS, AF frequently develops after pacemaker implantation,and       progresses to persistent AF over long term follow up.        The occurrence of AF have been shown to be an independent predictor for major cardiovascular       events in SSS patients receiving physiologic pacing. Recent prospective clinical trials have       demonstrated that physiologic pacing mode reduces the risk of AF compared to single chamber       ventricular pacing in patients with SSS. However, the effectiveness of physiologic pacing in       reducing the incidence of AF in patients with sinus node dysfunction is still incomplete.        One recent clinical study had reported that 68% of SSS patients with a DDDR pacemaker have       atrial tachyarrhythmias detected by the pacemaker devices at median 718 days follow-up.       Modern pacemakers have diagnostic features that permit the detection and storage of       information about the date, time of onset, and duration of multiple, sequential episodes of       atrial tachyarrhythmias. Since a high percentage of AF episodes may be asymptomatic, AF       "burden" have been used as surrogate end points. Prolonged P wave, shortened refractoriness,       or remarkably abnormal conduction disturbances in the presence of prolonged refractoriness       limit the effectiveness of standard physiologic pacing in AF prevention. This could explain,       at least in part, the tendency of SSS to develop AF as a part of its natural history.       Clinical electrophysiology has focused the attention on the electrophysiological and       structural properties of the atrial muscle in patients with SSS: shortened and inhomogeneous       refractoriness and local and regional conduction slowing, as well as prolonged intra- and       inter-atrial conduction disturbances, are well described as increased interstitial fibrosis       associated with the genesis of AF.        A growing body of evidences has shown that inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system can       prevent the promotion of AF by suppressing the development of atrial fibrosis and structural       remodeling. At present, the influence of a treatment target aiming on altered fibrosis and       structural substrate in patients with SSS is not yet known. One striking result of the       losartan intervention for endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study was that new-onset       AF and associated stroke were significantly reduced by losartan- compared to atenolol-based       antihypertensive treatment with similar blood pressure reduction.        The relative risk of new-onset AF in losartan group is 0.67 compared to atenolol group (i.e.;       33% risk reduction) Therefore, there is every reason to believe that blocking the       renin-angiotensin pathway with angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade would have positive       influence on AF burden in this clinical setting. Recently, enalapril has been reported to       prevent rapid atrial pacing (4 weeks)-induced interstitial fibrosis and fatty degeneration of       the sinus node and to improve sinus node function in canine model, supporting the important       role of structural changes of sinus node in the regulation of sinus node function. This       possibility supporting therapeutic interventions using RAS inhibitors forms an attractive       theoretical basis for interventions to reverse SND in such patients.        In support of these hypotheses, the present study was undertaken to determine whether       selective angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade with high dose losartan was effective in       reducing AF burden, pacemaker dependence, shortening of sinus node recovery time, hsCRP, and       NT-pro BNP, and associated cardiovascular events in SSS patients receiving physiologic       pacing.        In this study, all pacemakers are standard rate-adaptive dual chamber pacemakers:        Medtronic Kappa 900 or Versa. At implantation, all patients were programmed to DDI mode at 50       ppm to minimize the ventricular pacing. All patients had the atrial tachyarrhythmia detection       feature programmed "on" after pacemaker implantation. This feature provides information on       the date, time of onset, and duration of the first 15 consecutive episodes of an atrial       tachyarrhythmia. This information can be retrieved during follow-up visits using the       pacemaker programmer.Patients were evaluated every 3 months after pacemaker implantation. At       each visit, the atrial tachyarrhythmia diagnostic data were retrieved. Each episode       classified as an atrial tachyarrhythmia was reviewed by one of the investigators.       False-positive detections of AF due to oversensing were excluded using specific rules       developed in the course of previous clinical trials. On review of the beat-to-beat intervals       stored in the diagnostic counters during an episode classified as AF, far-field oversensing       was defined if          1. Long intervals between successive detected atrial events were paced and short intervals            were sensed; or          2. The difference between the first, third, fifth, and seventh atrial intervals and the            second, fourth, sixth, and eighth intervals was > 150 beats/min; or          3. The sum of the long and short interatrial intervals was equal to the interatrial            intervals recorded before or after termination of the episode.        The atrial tachycardia detection feature in the Medtronic Kappa 900 or Versa was used for AF       detection in this study. This feature has been reported to have a high sensitivity and       specificity for the detection of atrial tachyarrhythmias. All atrial leads were bipolar. The       atrial sensitivity was programmed to 0.5 mV, which is the standard clinic protocol. The       programming parameters for AF detection included a post-ventricular atrial blanking period of       150 msec, a tachycardia detection rate of 180 beats/min, the number of beats for atrial       tachycardia detection of 200, the number of beats for tachycardia termination of 10, and the       diagnostic arrhythmia counter was frozen in order to collect information on the first 15       tachycardia episodes. These parameters were selected to optimize the detection of AF and to       reduce the likelihood that nonsustained AF would fill the diagnostic counters. AF episodes <       1 minute in duration were not detected as an episode of AF. To maximize collection of       sequential episodes of AF, the atrial electrogram storage feature was not used. In the Kappa       900 or Versa, an electrogram can be retrieved for the first episode of AF detected (if the       episode occurs within a programmable time) and, in these cases, the electrogram was reviewed       to ensure appropriate classification of AF.        Sustained AF was defined as an atrial tachyarrhythmia with an atrial rate > 250 beats/min and       duration > 1 minute. The atrial rate was determined based on review of the interatrial       intervals stored in the device diagnostics during each episode.        AF burden was defined as the quantity of AF documented during the follow-up period and       expressed as a portion of the follow-up period (hours/day). When the event counters were       filled, AF burden was calculated as the total duration of AF during the time required to fill       the counters.        Permanent AF was defined as AF present at two consecutive visits and an AF burden of 24       hours/day between those visits.        CSNRT at pacemaker implant and each visit :        The corrected sinus node recovery time (CSNRT) was assessed at CLs of 600, 500 and 400 ms       after a 30-second pacing train from the atrial lead. The measurement of CSNRT was repeated 3       times, and averaged. Atrial-based pacemaker dependence Pacemaker dependency was defined as       the absence of escape or intrinsic rhythm for at least 30 seconds after gradual slowing of       the pacing rate to 30 beats/min. Pacemaker dependency was examined every 3 months.       Measurement of Intrinsic Heart Rate Pacing system follow-ups, including measurements of       pacing/sensing characteristics, lead impedance, and surveillance of battery status were       performed every 3 months in each patient. Endocardial atrial and ventricular electrograms       were recorded via a programmer with the pacing mode temporarily set to AAI at a lower rate of       30 beats/min. A temporary programmable function that allows markers to appear on the       programmer's electrocardiographic recording, corresponding to spontaneous events sensed by       the pulse generator, was used to measure the rate of intrinsic or escape rhythms.        Pacing rate was manually step-downed to 30 beats/min in every 10 beats/min from the lower       pacing rate, and intrinsic or escape rhythms were checked at each pacing rate. A fixed pacing       rate of 30 beats/min following the gradual decrease was maintained for at least 30 seconds to       allow the emergence of intrinsic or escape rhythms.        Approximately 220 male and female patients, aged 20 to 80 years, with SSS will be enrolled       and randomly assigned to the losartan add on physiological atrial-based pacing or       physiological atrial-based pacing alone treatment arm. The sample size was calculated to       provide the study with 80% power for a two-sided alpha level of 0.05. Assuming a 33%       reduction of AF incidence rate in the losartan group compared with physiological pacing only       group after 1 year after randomization. Based on these assumptions, the total sample size       required was estimated to be 100 patients in each arm. Thus we need to enroll 220 eligible       cases.        Study medication (losartan) will be in tablet form. Patients randomized to the losartan arm       will receive 50 mg once a day for 2 weeks, patients will then be up-titrated to 50 mg of       losartan twice a day following the first 2-week therapy. Each patient will be assessed       following 4 weeks of losartan therapy at this dose. If the patient is well tolerated for this       dose they will be maintained on it for the remaining time of the study. If they are unable to       tolerate this target dose they will be permitted to down-titrate and continue on the highest       tolerated dose. Only those patients able to tolerate at least the lowest dose of losartan       will be permitted to continue on study until the end of study period.        Normotensive patients who weigh less than 50 kg, or who are aged over 70 years will receive       25 mg/day for the first 2 weeks, then increase to 50 mg/day, with the aim of reaching 100       mg/day for the rest of the study.
nan
nan
Cardiovascular Diseases are a major cause of global morbidity and mortality, being       responsible according to the World Health Organization of the 30% of overall mortality.        Since 2001 that the first pacemaker of remote monitoring was implanted in Europe, more than       300,000 pacemaker have been implanted around the world. Despite this sharp expansion, the       scientific evidence on economic evaluations of pacemaker with remote monitoring is very       limited, and in our knowledge, studies including informal costs have not been conducted.        In the field of cardiology, telemedicine allows consultations with patients through       monitoring systems and remote communication analyzing the ongoing heart rates of people with       pacemakers, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cardiac resynchronization therapy and       subcutaneous Holter. The use of remote monitoring may save time and efforts to both       healthcare professionals and patients, including their informal caregivers, reducing the       number of follow up visits to the hospital and reducing the associated costs with patient       follow-up, which will help to improve sustainability of healthcare services.        During the 06 months of study, the patients with implant of pacemakers of both groups will be       assessed of the same parameters, in 3 different moments (pre-implant and months 1, and 6       post-implantation).        Pacemakers that are going to be used in the project:          1. Remote monitoring group: Biotronik Estella SR-T and DR-T & Biotronik Evia SR-T and DR-T.          2. Hospital monitoring group: St Jude Medical Endurity SR and DR & Sorin Reply 200 SR and            DR.        The study will estimate: 1) The Clinical features of the patients. 2) The effectiveness       through of administration of Health-Related Quality of Life questionnaires and 3) Finally,       hospital and informal costs of patients with pacemakers will be estimated by the researches.
Survival to adulthood is now common for children born with congenital heart defects (CHD).       This improved survival is in large part due to advances in cardiac surgery over the past 4       decades. However, few cardiac surgical repairs are curative. Many 'repaired' children with       congenital heart defects later develop problems as adults. Arrhythmias, need for additional       surgery, and heart failure are the more common late sequelae of congenital heart disease (1).       In addition, many adults with CHD will need a pacemaker for sick sinus syndrome (inability of       the inherent pacemaker of the heart to function properly resulting in bradycardia sometimes       alternating with tachycardia), tachyarrhythmias or heart block (2, 3). Certain group of       patients, such as those with congenital corrected transposition of the great arteries       (CCTGA), d-transposition s/p atrial switch procedures and those with single ventricle       physiology are at particular risk of developing heart failure (4). Attached figures show the       anatomy of these congenital heart defect. Cardiac resynchronization therapy improves exercise       tolerance, symptoms and reduces mortality in adults with heart failure due to acquired left       ventricular dysfunction.(5-8). In addition, automatic internal cardioverter - defibrillators       (ICD) have now been shown to decrease mortality in patients with low ejection fraction due to       ischemic or non-ischemic etiologies (9, 10).        Patients with CHD pose a challenge to traditional transvenous pacemaker lead placement due to       either complex venous anatomy that precludes conventional percutaneous approaches for       pacemaker implantation or occlusions of central venous form multiple prior procedures (11,       12). As evident in the study by Janousek et.al, 7 out of 8 patients enrolled in this study       required a thoracotomy for lead placement (4). While thoracoscopic epicardial lead placement       has been described for placement of pacemaker leads in adults without congenital heart       defects (13, 14), it has not been described for adult patients with congenital heart disease.
Permanent pacemaker implantation is a safe, life-prolonging and cost-effective treatment for       bradycardia. An estimated 300,000 people in the UK have a pacemaker and there are 36,000 new       implants per year. Complications from pacemaker implantation occur in 5-15% of patients,       mostly in the first six weeks. After six months new problems are very rare. Clinic follow-up       of patients with a PPM usually occurs at six weeks, three months and then annually to monitor       battery performance. Reprogramming is rarely required, and batteries reliably last at least       five years. The tariff for pacemaker follow-up is £200 costing the National Health Service       (NHS) £50 million per year.        The commonest and most under-recognised long-term complication of pacemaker implantation is       pacemaker-related chronic heart failure (CHF) due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction,       seen in up to 50% of patients. Published data examining the incidence and associations of       pacemaker-related cardiac dysfunction consist of retrospective cross-sectional analyses or       data taken from other studies rather than a-priori planned analyses. Our unique pilot data in       almost 500 patients show that cardiac dysfunction is present in 40% of all pacemaker patients       and confirm previous suggestions that it is more common in patients with an underlying       predisposition, for example cardiovascular co-morbidities (including diabetes mellitus), with       high rates of pacing and atrial fibrillation. Our data also demonstrate that patients with       cardiac dysfunction and a pacemaker are not usually taking optimal medical therapy for their       heart failure and suffer a 13% annual combined heart failure hospitalisation or death rate       (compared to 6% in pacemaker patients without cardiac dysfunction, and ~8% in patients with       CHF attending the Leeds Integrated Heart Failure Service). However, since patients with       pacemakers were often excluded from the large studies of medical (and device) therapy of CHF,       it is unclear whether optimisation of medical (and pacemaker) therapy in patients with       pacemaker-related cardiac dysfunction can reduce mortality and hospitalisation. Pilot data       from our clinic in 25 patients with a pacemaker and CHF, show that optimised medical therapy       can lead to similar improvements in cardiac function as in CHF patients without a pacemaker.        The present project therefore includes three distinct, but closely related, work packages       which will answer three questions;          1. in patients receiving their first pacemaker, which clinical and pacing variables predict            short, medium and long-term complications and is it therefore feasible, safe and            cost-effective to individualise follow-up intervals;          2. can we confirm and validate our previous observation that a model consisting of simple            clinical and pacing variables identifies pacemaker patients at higher risk for cardiac            dysfunction during a pacemaker-follow-up appointment and;          3. does applying our risk model with subsequent optimisation of medication and pacemaker            programming within a multidisciplinary heart failure service in those with heart failure            lead to cost effective and clinically relevant reductions in mortality and            hospitalisation?
After a number of studies which assessed technical reliability and clinical implications of       remote monitoring systems, a further step should approach the issue of how remote monitoring       can be implemented as a part of routine activities of a cardiology outpatient clinic. A clear       definition of roles and workflow to timely manage information and properly react to adverse       events is required. The HomeGuide Registry proposes an organizational model specifying roles       and procedures for outpatient clinics using a specific remote monitoring system in routine       follow-up. The HomeGuide model is essentially based on an interaction between one or more       allied professionals (expert and trained nurses or technicians) and a responsible physician.       The main objective of the HomeGuide Registry is to evaluate:          1. Clinical efficiency of remote patient management;          2. Health service resources required by a remote patient management.
Lead induced tricuspid regurgitation is a common finding after pacemaker/ICD Implantation.       Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) might be used to guide lead implantations in order to       prevent tricuspid regurgitation.        In this registry, patients undergoing pacemaker/ICD implantation including a transtricuspid       lead are enrolled. While in most patients lead implantation is guided by fluroscopy, in some       patients lead implantation is guided by TEE in addition to fluroscopy.        Aims of this registry: Evaluation of          -  Incidence of lead induced tricuspid regurgitation          -  Mortality and morbidity of lead induced tricuspid regurgitation          -  Identification of risk factors for lead induced tricuspid regurgitation          -  Influence of the lead position within the tricuspid valve on the incidence of lead            induced tricuspid regurgitation          -  Prevention of lead induced tricuspid regurgitation by TEE-guided lead implantation
The principal objective of the OPTI-MIND study is to collect data on two-year all-cause       mortality in a general population implanted with a PM according to current clinical practice.       Additionally, the study aims to stratify the outcome by both known patient-related risk       factors and by physiologic pacing mode setting (a specifically defined PM programming).       Stratification will be done for pre-specified classes of patients on the basis of their       primary rhythm disease.
The trial is designed          1. To investigate the cardiac MRI related adverse event-free rate in patients with long            term implanted coradial pacing leads (Fineline-II) after implantable pulse generator            (IPG) exchange to a MRI conditional system (short term and long term): Safety.          2. To assess the technical performance of MRI conditional pacemaker systems with long term            implanted coradial pacing leads, for cardiac MRI (short term and long term):            Effectiveness pacemaker.          3. To assess the image quality (IQ) and the diagnostic value (DV) of the cardiac MRI scans            in patients with implanted MRI conditional systems: Effectiveness cardiac MRI.             2) To evaluate the clinical incidence of MRI procedures in the population of long term            implanted pacemaker patients (long term-follow up)
nan
nan
Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and is a major public and       represents a major public health problem with increasing healthcare costs and increased       mortality risk.        In case of recurrent symptomatic atrial fibrillation current guidelines recommend       pulmonary-vein isolation (PVI) as invasive treatment option. However, 5-year arrhythmia-free       survival estimate is 29% after single catheter ablation. Although the long-term success rates       in maintaining sinus rhythm are higher than with drug-based rhythm control, they are still       moderate, especially in older patients with comorbidities. Therefore, repeated interventions       are often necessary.        An effective method for frequency control is atrioventricular (AV) node ablation after       implantation of a pacemaker ("ablate-and-pace"). In this case, the ventricular rate is only       set by the pacemaker and can be programmed according to the patient's needs.        There are some theoretical disadvantages of this treatment option (pacemaker dependency,       reduction of cardiac outpout due to lack of atrial contraction) which is why this method       nowadays is almost exclusively used in older (and physically less active) patients.        The ABLATE versus PACE trial is a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing at 196       these two treatment options in terms of rehospitalizations due to cardiovascular causes and       quality of life in elderly patients (≥ 75 years) with normal ejection fraction (≥ 50%).
nan
This study examines possible risk factors with regard to complications following pacemaker       implantation. We are using data from The Danish Pacemaker Register.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the leadless       pacemaker system in treating patients with a slow heart rate or irregular heartbeats. The       Nanostim leadless pacemaker provides bradycardia pacing as a pulse generator with built-in       battery and electrodes, for permanent implantation in the right ventricle. As a leadless       pacemaker, it does not need a connector, pacing lead, or pulse generator pocket, but it has       the same operating principles as a conventional pacemaker.
Permanent pacemaker is a well-established treatment to treat patients with a wide range of       heart rhythm disturbances.        Fluoroscopy is the imaging modality routinely used for cardiac device implantation and       electrophysiological procedures.Due to the rising concern regarding the harmful effects of       radiation exposure to both the patients and operation staffs, novel 3D mapping systems have       been developed and implemented in electrophysiological procedure for the navigation of       catheters inside the heart chambers.        Ensite NavX system can be used for cardiac imaging as a reliable and safe zero-fluoroscopy       approach for implantation of single- or dual-chamber permanent pacemaker in patients. Our       method offered a choice for some special population of patient in whom radiation exposure       need to be avoided or in the extreme circumstances when the X-ray machine is out-of-order.
Permanent pacemaker is a well-established treatment to treat patients with a wide range of       heart rhythm disturbances.        Fluoroscopy is the imaging modality routinely used for cardiac device implantation and       electrophysiological procedures.Due to the rising concern regarding the harmful effects of       radiation exposure to both the patients and operation staffs, novel 3D mapping systems have       been developed and implemented in electrophysiological procedure for the navigation of       catheters inside the heart chambers.        Ensite NavX system can be used for cardiac imaging as a reliable and safe zero-fluoroscopy       approach for implantation of single- or dual-chamber permanent pacemaker in patients. Our       method offered a choice for some special population of patient in whom radiation exposure       need to be avoided or in the extreme circumstances when the X-ray machine is out-of-order.
Pilot studies of approximately 1500 patients, RPN #03-08-12-11 and 00051707 (manuscript       submitted) demonstrated the safety of most contemporary implanted rhythm management devices       in the MRI environment given appropriate precautions.        When pilot studies were developed, there was a theoretical concern that there may be an       increased risk associated with some device and device circumstances including: 1) PPM's or       leads implanted prior to 1996; 2) ICD's implanted prior to 2000; 3) abandoned or endocardial       leads; 4) leads implanted <6 weeks; 5) ICD's where patient is pacemaker dependent.        While it was reasonable to be hyper vigilant when initiating pilot studies by including       restrictive inclusion criteria, the natural evolution of the devices and device related       technologies coupled with a lack of objective scientific data to support investigator's early       safety concerns has caused investigators to reevaluate their necessity. For example, older       pacemakers and ICD's that previously excluded potential participants are now obsolete; all       have expired batteries and have been explanted. Similarly, the technological evolution of       ICD's includes ICD's that are now capable of providing ongoing asynchronous pacing including       in the MRI environment. Despite some concern that abandoned, epicardial and newly implanted       leads may be at increased risk of heating or subject to torque, when investigators evaluated       15 participants with these lead issues and exposed them to MRI (off protocol in life       threatening situations) there were no adverse problems seen.        The vetting procedures investigators implemented in pilot studies required that a registered       nurse obtain all patient device information and chest xrays (when indicated) from referring       physicians, review them in advance of allowing participants to schedule an MRI, and exclude       any patient who did not meet inclusion criteria. Investigators found that these procedures       were time consuming and expensive (as they required a part time Registered Nurse (RN)       salary). In addition, in some cases, patients who might have derived considerable benefit       from an MRI were excluded from obtaining one and the time it took to adhere to the vetting       procedures needlessly delayed the MRI in some participants, causing them unnecessary stress       and frustration and even adversely affecting their clinical care.        MRI's will be done in participants who require a clinically indicated MRI without       implementing the vetting procedures investigators included in pilot studies. Participants       with implanted pacemakers and ICD's will only be eligible for MRI at Johns Hopkins Hospital       (JHH) if they agree to participate in this study. All studies will be done in the 1.5 Tesla       MRI unit. Since the first 100 participants were scanned in investigator's initial protocol       03-08-11-12, MRI scan sequences, field intensity and fields of exposure have been given no       special consideration given the presence of the pacemaker or ICD and there have been no       adverse or unanticipated problems. For this reason, investigators do not feel it is necessary       to impose any special restrictions (related to field intensity or scan sequences/exposure) in       this protocol. In the event that any device manufacturer indicates the need for including       additional safety precautions investigators will amend the protocol immediately to include       them.        Electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring pads will be placed on the patient for the duration of the       study. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will be monitored non-invasively throughout       the study by a registered electrophysiology nurse who is Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS       )certified, fully trained in cardiac device management and familiar with the research       protocol as well as the implications of scanning patients with cardiac devices. In addition       to the electrophysiology nurse, two fully certified MRI technologists familiar with scanning       participants with implanted devices will be present in the control room the entire time the       participant is scanned. The scanner is located in close proximity to the electrophysiology       laboratory where Electrophysiology physicians perform procedures, hence at all times at least       one, but typically more than one Electrophysiology physician who knows both the participant       and the MRI device procedure will be available. A Zoll external defibrillator with       transthoracic pacing capabilities, ACLS drugs and a fully equipped crash cart will be readily       available at all times in an area that is adjacent to the MRI control room.        Prior to the MRI, participants will be handed an alarm button and instructed to notify the       MRI technologist if for any reason he/she feels it is necessary and particularly in the event       that any unusual pains or sensations are experienced. Participants can be seen by the       technologist and the nurse who is monitoring the scan through a large window that separates       the scanner from the control room. In addition, the MRI technologist frequently initiates       conversation between sequences by asking the patient; "how are you".        All devices will undergo a complete interrogation and testing prior to imaging and following       imaging. PPMs will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited       mode in patients without pacemaker dependence.        The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to       ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependent participants with ICD's who       were previously excluded from prior studies will no longer be excluded as ICD's are now       reliably capable of maintaining adequate pacing when programmed to an asynchronous pacing       mode..        After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient is completed, the device will be       re-programmed to its original settings and completely interrogated and retested to detect any       changes in device performance.        All MRI's are clinically indicated and therefore standard of care. The participants       participation in the study will terminate when they complete a 1-6 week follow-up device       evaluation that will also be done as standard of care.
nan
nan
This investigation aims at determining a possibility to assess the usefulness of various       formulae that correct for the different effects of various pacing modes on the QT interval.       More specifically, the hypothesis will be tested that applying adequate correction will       preserve the predictive power of the QT-interval regarding proarrhythmia in various cardiac       pathologies and therapies.
The treatment of patients with recurrent syncope of vasovagal origin, not precipitated by       usual vasovagal factors, and not associated with structural heart disease, is unsolved. The       limitations of the conducted 5 pacemaker studies are a significant placebo effect of       pacemaker treatment, underpowering and lack of double blinding. The pacemaker intervention       has been accelerated dual chamber pacing at the time of bradycardia, which may be too late.       However, a pooling of all data indicate a beneficial effect of pacing.        Vasodilatation is an obligate element of all vasovagal syncopal episodes and in many also an       early sign associated with the hyperkinetic empty left ventricle which triggers the reflex       wave. The principle in closed loop stimulation (CLS) is a continuous surveillance of the       impedance in the right ventricle which correlates highly with myocardial contractility. When       contractility is increased significantly atrial pacing with prolonged AV delay is commenced.       This principle has been used in chronotropic incompetent patients and in one small study of       patients with vasovagal syncope with a positive outcome. The hypothesis is that the CLS will       potentially identify an incipient vasovagal attack and be able to prevent the drop in cardiac       output and bradycardia by early accelerated pacing.        Patients will be treated 12 months with active pacing (CLS) and then crossed over to 12       months with passive pacing (VVI, 30 bpm).        The study will be double blinded, only a technician will know the status of the pacemaker.
Patients admitted to the Cardiology Hospital, National Medical Center Century XXI, will be       included and a permanent pacemaker will be installed due to alterations in atrio-ventricular       conduction that meet the selection criteria. They will be explained what the research       consists of and they will be given an informed consent form to participate in the study, with       all the ethical considerations that we will discuss later.        they require to control their comorbidities according to the assessment of their treating       physician. Having accepted their participation in the present research project, the first       evaluation (Time 0) will be conducted through an interview with the instrument SF36 Spanish       version containing a total of 36 questions, translated into several languages and applied to       multiple studies in Mexico for its validation. The interview will be conducted in two parts       and will last approximately 15 to 20 minutes.        Once the first evaluation has been carried out, they will randomly assign, through the use of       random number tables, to receive specific care from the nursing staff in the following       manner:        I. Group of conventional nursing intervention (Group I) that refers to the form performed up       to now, hemodynamic assessment, local pacemaker verification, electrocardiographic tracing,       surveillance and care of the incision, assessment of symptoms after the insertion of the       pacemaker, risks and interferences, mobilization and posture, complications, care information       and identification of other needs of the elderly in terms of mobility, degree of dependency,       pain assessment, elimination, nutritional, rest and relationship difficulties family, work,       emotional conflicts, values and religiosity in some cases.        II. Nursing intervention group through the nursing process with the Marjory Gordon system       (Group II).          1. Starting with the assessment stage by functional patterns: health perception-management,            nutrition, elimination, activity and rest, sleep and rest, perceptual cognitive,            self-concept-self-perception, role-relationships, sexuality-reproduction,            coping-tolerance of stress, values and beliefs and the quality of life.          2. Following the diagnostic stage of nursing, the problem is identified through labels that            define it as: Decrease in cardiac output, risk of bleeding, ineffective protection,            acute pain, risk of imbalance of body temperature, deterioration of ambulation,            deterioration of physical mobility, deterioration of gas exchange, disposition to            improve one's health, sleep deprivation, deterioration of urinary elimination,            constipation, self-care deficit, sensory perception disorder, deterioration of social            interaction or conflict of decisions , hopelessness, low self-esteem, body image            disorder, ineffective coping, anxiety, fear and hopelessness complementing the structure            of the diagnosis with risk factors (for example: poor knowledge) and etiological (for            example: altered frequency and heart rate) , as well as, with defining characteristics            (signs and symptoms) that pre Say the problem.          3. The planning stage will be carried out through expected results from the problems            identified as nursing diagnoses and using the classification of expected nursing            outcomes (NOC) each of them with a target score of maintaining results; will increase;            and scales from severe to none, or from seriously compromised to uncommitted will depend            on the proposed result. Decreased cardiac output The expected result will be            effectiveness of the heart pump which will be measured with indicators such as: systolic            blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, heart rate , peripheral pulses. From the            expected result, nursing interventions will be derived:             Intervention "Cardiac care" with activities               1. Observing vital signs frequently               2. Monitor cardiovascular status               3. Check and check the operation of the pacemaker,               4. Instruct the patient on the importance of the immediate report of any chest                 discomfort.               5. Take note of the significant signs and symptoms of decreased cardiac output. •                 Intervention "Management of the definitive pacemaker" with activities of               1. Education on the potential risks of metabolic alterations (eg potential to increase                 the thresholds of rhythm or capture);               2. The importance of attending their periodic checks;               3. Sources of higher electromagnetic interference (eg arc welding equipment, radio                 transmitters, electronic muscle stimulators, concert loudspeakers, electric drills,                 hand-held metal detectors, magnetic resonance, radiotherapy).               4. Keep about 15 cm away from cell phones;               5. Signs and symptoms of a dysfunctional pacemaker (eg bradycardia, dizziness,                 weakness, fatigue, chest discomfort, angina, dyspnea, orthopnea, edema, paroxysmal                 nocturnal dyspnea, exertional dyspnea, hypotension, syncope, cardiac arrest)               6. The importance of carrying the identification card of the manufacturer at all                 times.               7. Information to the patient and the family related to the implantation of the                 pacemaker (eg, indications, functions, universal programming codes, potential                 complications); related to the effects of pacemaker treatment to reduce patient                 uncertainty, fear and anxiety about symptoms (eg dizziness, palpitations, chest                 pain, shortness of breath) related to treatment (arm edema or augmentation) of                 heat);               8. Teach the patient to check the manufacturer's warnings when in doubt about                 electrical appliances.          4. Fourth stage of the nursing process execution of nursing interventions (NIC) obtained            through the expected results (NOC).        To evaluate the response of patients to nursing interventions in their quality of life, the       following will be done:        1. Before discharge from hospital, verification of quality control of the maneuver will be       carried out, using a checklist, on the indications given by the nursing staff to the patient.        2. One month after the patient's hospital discharge, during which patients are regularly       scheduled for follow-up consultation, after their routine medical assessment, an interview       will be conducted where we will make a total of 36 questions with 3 to 5 answer options each,       with the SF36 instrument. The 36 items explore 8 dimensions of the state of physical health,       physical function, physical role, body pain, general health, vitality, social function,       emotional role and mental health: considering depression, anxiety, self-control, and general       well-being; applying the assessment system of the functional patterns of the Marjory Gordon       model, through surveys. The interview will be conducted in two parts and will last       approximately 15 to 20 minutes. (Outcome) The system by Functional Employers focuses its       attention on 11 items with importance for the health of the individual, family or community.          1. Ability of the person to identify their health status.          2. Ability of the person to identify their nutritional needs.          3. Identify the excretory function (intestinal, urinary and skin).          4. Realization of the activities and exercise carried out by the person.          5. Conciliar sleep activity          6. Sensory alterations: Hearing, gustatory, tactile and olfactory views as well as the            presence of pain.          7. Form in which the patient feels, feelings, knowledge of himself.          8. Way to live with others.          9. It is experienced or expressed in the form of thoughts, fantasies, desires, beliefs,            attitudes, values, activities, practices, roles and relationships.         10. Way to handle stress.         11. Values, beliefs that guide the decisions and choices of the individual.
Comparison of the effect of an atrioventricular hysteresis function with a mode switch to       atrial pacing on the right ventricular pacing percentage in a multi-centre, prospective,       randomized, single blinded, cross-over study.
nan
It is well-known that persistent right ventricular apical pacing induces left ventricular       dysfunction. The most important risk factor is the ratio of ventricular pacing so the effort       to reduce pacing ratio is needed. However, almost 100% ventricular pacing is inevitable in       complete atrio-ventricular block patients with implanted pacemaker. Traditionally the       ventricular lead of the pacemaker is positioned in right ventricular apex and previous       literatures reported that such right ventricular apical pacing impedes physiological       ventricular contraction and induces left ventricular contractile dysfunction in long-term.       The alternative positions of ventricular lead are right ventricular outflow tract and       ventricular septum but the benefits are not yet clearly prooved. Additionally, adjusting       atrio-ventricular delay is reportedto affect cardiac output by altering diastolic filling.       The investigators aimed to analyze the effect of AV dealy in long-term left ventricular       contractile function.        Patients over 19 years old who received or anticipated to receive permanent pacemaker due to       AV block are randomized to 1:1 ratio into two groups. Patients in intervention group undergo       reprogramming AV delay of pacemaker to the best value to increase cardiac output measured by       transthoracic echocardiogram and the patients in control group undergo routinely scheduled       pacemaker programming. Patients with underlying LV systolic dysfunction or significant       valvular heart disease are excluded. Six-minute walk test, BNP, transthoracic echocardiogram,       NYHA class are examined at baseline and after one year.
Project objectives or hypothesis Hypothesis of the study is that a modified and improved       implantation protocol (regarding membranous septum length and implantation depth) will       decrease the need for permanent pacemaker stimulation following TAVR-procedures.        Patient profile and sample size The study cohort will comprise of patients referred to       transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Patients will be prospectively and consecutively       screened and enrolled at a tertiary high-volume center in Germany. TAVR will be performed       according to a modified implantation technique regarding membranous septum length. Pacemaker       rates will be analyzed and compared to a historical control. Taking into account a       contemporary pacemaker rate of 15%, a reduction to 7% will require a sample size of 239       patients per group to achieve statistically significance (Chi-squared test, alpha 0.05, beta       0.80).        Regarding the prospective cohort, interims analysis will be performed after each 10 TAVR       procedures. In case a signal towards worse outcomes with the modified implantation technique       will be observed, the institutional safety and endpoint adjudication committee will stop       further execution of the study.
nan
The interventricular synchrony is one of the components of a proper cardiac function. When       there is no synchrony -as in left bundle block (LBBB)- the clinic consequences should have       little importance in patients with a healthy heart or a great importance in patients       suffering heart failure (HF), specially in those with severe grade of HF, the benefit of       cardiac resynchronization by pacing both ventricles or left ventricle (LV)should means       healthy improvement in patients. All previous studies done in HF, are in patients with       symptomatic HF. The importance of stop progression of latent HF in patients with asymptomatic       ventricular dysfunction (VD)in permanent pacing indication patients. Pacing may accelerate HF       progression by dissincronyzing ventricles. ACE inhibitors studies in asymptomatic VD gave       positive results.        The PreVent-HF is an international, multicenter, prospective, randomized, single-blinded       pilot trial specifically designed to evaluate as main objective the progression of VD in       permanent pacing population.
nan
nan
This study seeks to verify that a follow-up strategy for patients implanted with a mono- or       double-chamber pacemaker, stimuli-dependent or not, for 2 years, by means of data       transmissions of the devices by Carelink Express during the usual consultations with the       treating cardiologist significantly reduces the number of unnecessary consultations in the       implant centers (without any change in treatment or pacemaker programming) compared to the       usual follow-up mode recommended for this type of device.
nan
Given the high prevalence of interatrial block (WHO definition: PWD on surface ECG > 110 ms)       in a general hospitalized population and especially in patient groups with tachyarrhythmias       (18% and 52 % respectively), this phenomenon will be important to recognize in a BIC       pacemaker patient population. Actually, the prevalence of advanced interatrial block (PWD >       120 ms with biphasic P wave morphology) is 10% in candidates for definitive pacing and 32 %       in patients with a bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome. The main underlying mechanism is thought       to lie in abnormalities of the Bachmann bundle resulting in partial or advanced interatrial       conduction delay (IACD). A normal IACD varies between 60 and 85 ms. Two potential mechanisms       are spatial dispersion of refractory periods or anisotropy resulting from scarce side-to-side       electrical coupling and fibrosis disrupting the arrangement of atrial muscle fibers.        Patients with an interatrial conduction delay may have a suboptimal left atrioventricular       timing due to delayed contraction of the left atrium with foreshortening of ventricular       filling. This may be an issue in pacemaker patients, with our without a substrate for heart       failure. Beside the loss of reduction of left atrial contraction, it might even induce       neurohormonal changes due to atrial stretch and pressure thus lowering blood pressure.       Coronary sinus or multisite atrial pacing, both with the aim of synchronizing right and left       atrial electrical activation, have shown to (i) improve hemodynamics in patients with an       important IACD, both invasively and noninvasively, and to (ii) decrease recurrences of atrial       fibrillation. In patients with a conventional BIC pacemaker, prevention of left       atrioventricular asynchrony can be achieved by AV optimization (lengthening of the AV delay       in case of too short nominal settings) as an alternative. Though all these interventions have       proven to have positive hemodynamic results until now evidence about positive effects on       clinical patient outcomes are lacking.        On the other hand, some of the patients implanted with a bicameral pacemaker have a too long       AV delay. As a consequence diastolic filling time is impaired. Without compromising left       atrioventricular synchrony AV delay, optimal AVD (AVO) can be achieved by lengthening of the       AVD with conventional methods.        In contrast to the setting of CRT, AV optimization in patients with a bicameral (BIC)       pacemaker is not fully implemented in daily clinical practice. Given the proven effect on       mitral inflow on echocardiography, we wanted to evaluate the effect of this non invasive       intervention on patient functionality and quality of life, based on a comprehensive       assessment of atrial pathophysiology.
Cardiac pacing is the only effective treatment for symptomatic sinus node dysfunction. Most       patients with preserved left ventricular function receive dual chamber pacemakers; however,       right ventricular pacing can have detrimental effects on left ventricular function due to the       abnormal electrical and mechanical activation pattern of the ventricles.        Many patients receiving dual chamber pacemakers for symptomatic bradycardia have prolonged       intrinsic AV conduction (first degree AV block), and as a result, will receive a significant       amount of ventricular pacing if programmed at physiologic AV intervals. As an alternative,       many pacemakers can be programmed to minimize ventricular pacing at the expense of allowing       longer AV delays. However, these long AV delays may not be physiologic and may also lead to       reduced cardiac output. At present the standard of care is either to program the pacemaker at       an physiologic "natural" AV delay of about 160 msec or to program the pacemaker with a long       AV delay to minimize ventricular pacing.        The main scientific questions being addressed in this study are to evaluate the acute and       chronic effects on cardiac output, functional status, sense of well-being, and cardiac       remodeling of a long AV delay allowing for intrinsic conduction as compared to an       echocardiographically optimized AV delay during dual chamber pacing.        Patients enrolled in the trial will complete a run-in period of two weeks prior to       randomization in which pacemakers will be programmed with a long-fixed AV delay to allow       intrinsic conduction and minimize ventricular pacing (standard). At two weeks, patients will       receive a baseline echocardiogram. To determine optimal AV delay, all patients will undergo       echocardiographic analysis at varying AV delays. Optimal AV delay will be defined as the AV       delay associated with the largest average aortic Doppler velocity time integral (VTI). Then,       patients will be randomized to either the short, optimized (experimental) or long, fixed       (standard) AV delay groups. To assess functional status and sense of well-being, patients       will complete a six minute walk test and Short Form-36 Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire.       Patients return to clinic for another study visit at 6 months and repeat research procedures,       including baseline echocardiogram, questionnaire, and 6 minute walk test.
The study is being conducted in 56 sites located around the world, including 30 sites in the       United States (U.S.).        Up to 780 subjects were planned to be enrolled (i.e. consented) to allow up to 720 subjects       to be implanted enabling at least 600 subjects to be followed for at least 12-months       post-implant.        There are two primary objectives in this study (one safety and one efficacy). The primary       safety objective of the study is to evaluate major complications related to the Micra system       or procedure. The primary safety endpoint was pre-specified to be evaluated at 6-months (183       days) post-implant. The primary efficacy objective, Micra pacing capture thresholds, was also       pre-specified to be evaluated six months post-implant. This study also has a separate long       term safety objective that will provide additional long-term safety data following potential       regulatory submissions.        All subjects will be followed until official study closure (official study closure is defined       as when Medtronic and/or FDA requirements have been satisfied per the Clinical       Investigational Plan and/or by a decision by Medtronic or regulatory authority).        Additionally, the Micra Accelerometer Sensor Sub-Study (MASS) is being conducted at 4 centers       already active in the Micra study in Austria, Spain, Hungary and France. Forty (40) subjects       were enrolled in the Sub-Study, and enrollment in the Sub-Study was complete as of March 31,       2016. The purpose of the Sub-Study is to test feasibility for future enhancements in the       Micra device functionalities.        An algorithm was designed to sense the atrial contraction using the Micra accelerometer.
nan
Rationale: The clinical severity of right ventricular disease is largely determined by       right-to-left ventricular dyssynchrony, i.e., delay of electrical activity between the right       and left ventricles. Moreover, in patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension       (CTEPH), we found that acute correction of this dyssynchrony by temporary pacing (prior to       pulmonary endarterectomy, presently the therapy of choice for CTEPH) results in significant       improvement in cardiac output. In this study, we aim to establish whether chronic pacing with       the use of implanted pacemakers confers long-lasting improvements in cardiac output and       functional class.        Objective: To study whether chronic pacing with implanted pacemakers confers long-lasting       improvements in cardiac output and functional class in severely symptomatic CTEPH patients       who are not eligible for pulmonary endarterectomy, or those in whom pulmonary endarterectomy       has failed.        Study design: Chronic intervention study, double-blinded, randomized, cross-over.        Study population: Adult CTEPH patients who are not eligible for pulmonary endarterectomy, or       those in whom pulmonary endarterectomy has failed.        Intervention (if applicable): chronic right ventricular resynchronization therapy (RVRT),       i.e., chronic right atrial, right ventricular, and left ventricular pacing with the use of       implanted pacemakers.        Main study parameters/endpoints: (Duration of) improvements (in l/min) in cardiac output as       measured using Doppler echocardiography, and functional class as measured using 6-minute       walking distance (6-MWD), right and left ventricular dimensions and ejection fractions       (99mTechnetium scintigraphy), biomarkers for heart failure (serum NT-proBNP levels), and       quality of life (SF-36) questionnaire.        Design: Randomized, double-blind, cross-over study with 2 arms of 10 patients each (arms 1       and 2). In arm 1, RVRT is switched on immediately after pacemaker implant, is switched of in       week 5, and switched on at the start of week 6 until study end (32 weeks). In arm 2, RVRT is       switched at the start of week 5 after pacemaker implant until study end (32 weeks). At       various follow-up visits at weeks 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 16, the main study parameters/endpoints       (see previous paragraph) will be assessed.
nan
nan
The study is planned to commence in March 2010 after obtaining Ethics Committee approval.       Patients will be randomised to a three month course of dronedarone or placebo. 1:1 double       blinded randomisation will be undertaken. At three months, after a one week washout period,       the patients will cross-over treatment groups. To achieve a power of 0.8 with a type one       error rate 5% detecting a relative difference of 10% primary outcomes the study will require       42 patients. 50 patients in total will be enrolled in the study. The study will take place at       Eastbourne District General Hospital. The study duration per patient is 7 months. The overall       study duration will be 1 year.        STUDY OVERVIEW Appropriate patients with DDDRP pacemakers with an AF burden of 1-50% detected       on pacemaker holters will be identified from the pacing clinic list and the Cardiology       Outpatient Department at the Eastbourne District General Hospital. They will be invited to       take part after a verbal explanation of the study has been given. If agreement is obtained       each patient will be given the Patient Information Sheet and allowed time to consider their       participation in the study and to ask relevant questions. If they are still in agreement they       will be asked to sign the Patient Consent Form.        Initially, all patients will have all baseline parameters assessed. All patients will stop       taking their anti-arrhythmic drugs for a period of one week. Patients will then have a three       month course of either dronedarone or placebo according to randomisation in a double blinded       fashion. Randomisation will be performed by use of random number tables. At three months data       will be collected from patient questionnaires and pacemaker Holter.        There will be a one week washout period at this time. Patients will then cross-over to       dronedarone or placebo for a three month period. Data from patient questionnaires and       pacemaker Holters will be collected at three months after cross-over.        Patients will then undergo a further week washout period before re-initiating their original       anti-arrhythmic therapy.
Studies suggest that DDD pacemaker therapy is effective in improving symptoms and reducing       intra-ventricular pressures and pressure gradients in children with obstructive HCM during a       period of rapid body growth when the severity of the disease is expected to worsen. We       propose a randomized, cross-over study of DDD pacing versus placebo (AAI pacing mode) in       children who have limited exercise performance and/or symptoms despite medical therapy       (beta-blocker or verapamil). Study subjects will receive a pacemaker and will be randomized       to one of two pacing modes (DDD, AAI). After a 1-year follow-up evaluation the children will       cross-over to the alternative pacing mode, and will be re-evaluated after a further year. All       children will continue to receive optimum medical therapy (beta-blocker or verapamil) based       on improvement in symptoms and exercise performance. The subjects will undergo outpatient       evaluations (exercise tests and echocardiography) 3, 6, 15, and 18 months after pacemaker       implantation, and inpatient evaluations (exercise tests, echocardiography, and cardiac       catheterization) 1 year and 2 years after entry into the study. Primary end-points will be       exercise duration and severity of LV outflow obstruction. The patient, parents, referring       physician, and individual supervising the exercise tests will be blinded to the pacing mode.
PECS 1 Block and Supraclavicular Nerve Block, were performed by an anesthesiologist under       ultrasound control using a linear 8Mzt transducer, a Phillips HD 11 machine and a 50 mm       needle Stimuplex 360 Braun. The ALR procedure was performed 30 minutes before the surgical       incision. A volume of 15 ml of ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml is used and distributed as follows: 12       ml for the Pecs 1 Block and 3 ml for the Supraclavicular nerve block: The patient was placed       in supine position with the arm abducted at about 90 °, the puncture site being sterilized       with betadine. The transducer was first placed in a subclavicular position in order to       identify the major and minor pectoralis muscles, as well as the thoracoacromial artery,       particularly the pectoral branch, additional color Doppler, was used for the identification       of those vessels. The needle was directed in plane to the intermuscular space lying between       the large and small pectoral, a careful avoidance of the thoracoacromial artery or its       pectoral branch was ensured. The LA injection, under visual control of the spread between the       two muscles, was initiated at the level of the 2nd and 3rd ribs after a classical aspiration       test; 12 ml of the ropivacaine 0.375% were used. A spread of the LA appearing as an       intermuscular hypoechoic "lens" was always searched.        Second, a supraclavicular nerve block was performed. We initially identified the C5 root and       scanned cranially to visualize the superficial cervical plexus. then, moving caudally, the       supraclavicular nerve was isolated appearing as a hypoechogenic structure between scalenus       medius and posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. A total of 3 ml of ropivacaine       0,375% was deposited nearby this nerve.        In the ALC group (Anesthesia Local Surgeon's Anesthesia: Local Infiltration of N = 15       tissues) 15 ml Ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml were injected in the subclavicular area, as usual,       starting from the skin to the depth of the muscles.        In case of patient discomfort or failure of the techniques used, a further local infiltration       consisting of a maximum of 10 ml lidocaine 2% performed as required by the surgeon was       allowed as rescue. If this failed, the depth of sedation would gradually increase and       ventilation would be controlled either by face or laryngeal mask Propofol 1-3 mg / Kg / IV +       sufentanyl 2.5 μg / IV).
Study Design This is a retrospective chart review of patients that have undergone permanent       pacemaker implantation by the electrophysiology group at Oregon Health and Sciences       University Hospital during the period between 01/2003 and 01/2013 for chronic RV pacing after       AV node ablation or for AV node dysfunction.        Goal The goal of this study is to determine if patients requiring RV pacing after AV nodal       ablation are at increased risk for developing worsening cardiac function secondary to chronic       RV pacing compared to patients requiring RV pacing for AV node dysfunction.        Specific Objectives          -  To determine the number of patients that have a permanent pacemaker implanted after AV            node ablation and for AV node dysfunction within the last 10 years at OHSU Hospital.          -  To determine the number of patients that have a biventricular pacemaker implanted with            or without an implantable cardiac defibrillator within the last 10 years at OHSU            Hospital (control group).          -  Amongst those patients identified determine (1) left ventricular ejection fraction prior            to permanent pacemaker or biventricular pacemaker implantation and over time (2) left            ventricular volume and/or diameter prior to permanent pacemaker placement and over time            (3) all cause mortality          -  Amongst those patients identified determine incidence of new onset atrial fibrillation            after permanent pacemaker or biventricular pacemaker implantation          -  Amongst those patients identified determine incidence of inpatient admission of heart            failure exacerbation defined as presenting symptoms of dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal            nocturnal dyspnea, increased lower extremity edema requiring IV diuretics        Methods        This is a retrospective chart review of patients that have undergone permanent pacemaker       medical record system used at OHSU Hospital) with the help of an EPIC representative. If the       patient was referred for permanent pacemaker or biventricular pacemaker implantation from a       physician or medical group outside of OHSU records will be requested from that physician or       medical group.
The purpose of this study is to compare the number of falls and fractures in Sinus Node       Disease (SND) patients before versus after implantation of a MVP (TradeMark) pacemaker.       Further the effect of pacing in the MVP (TradeMark) mode in respect of cardiovascular events       is going to be analyzed in the same population.
nan
This prospective randomized controlled trial aims to examine the effect of subcostal       transverse abdominis plane block on the postoperative pain and opioid consumption in patients       (12y≤ age) who will undergo epigastric cardiac pacemaker operation.        Patients will be allocated to either the SC TAP(subcostal transverse abdominis plane block)       group or the control group (no block). Bilateral subcostal transverse abdominis plane block       will be performed using 0.25% ropivacaine (0.5mL/kg for each side, MAX 20mL for each side)       under ultrasound-guidance at the end of surgery.        The pain score at 10 min after PACU admin, 1, 6, 24 hours after the surgery, the total opioid       consumption at 12, and 24 hours after the surgery, the total dose of additional rescue       analgesia (intravenous ketololac, acetaminophen, or fentanil) at 12 and 24 hour after the       surgery will be recorded.
ORIGINAL HYPOTHESIS Increasing pacemaker left ventricular stimulation output is safe and       well-tolerated, and increases acute and longer term exercise capacity and quality of life       through improved left ventricular function over a range of heart rates.        The project consists of two closely related work packages.        AIMS -WORK PACKAGE 1          1. To determine whether high output pacing from the left ventricular (LV) lead in CRT            recipients acutely increases left ventricular contractility over a range of heart rates            and the baseline clinical features that predict this;          2. To establish the proportion of patients in whom high output pacing is not possible due            to phrenic nerve stimulation;          3. To determine whether high output pacing acutely improves exercise time on a treadmill.        AIMS -WORK PACKAGE 2          1. To determine whether longer term (6 months) high output left ventricular pacing is            associated with patient orientated benefits on treadmill exercise time and quality of            life          2. To determine whether longer-term (6m) high output left ventricular pacing is safe and            tolerated and what effects this approach has on battery longevity        BACKGROUND Chronic heart failure and cardiac resynchronisation therapy Even when prescribed       optimal medical and device therapy, patients with chronic heart failure suffer a persistent       reduction in quality of life mainly due to breathlessness and fatigue on exercise. The origin       of these symptoms is multifactorial, but despite increasing appreciation of the influence of       peripheral adaptations on exercise tolerance the key factor in initiation and persistence of       the symptoms is impaired cardiac contractility both at rest and over the relevant heart rate       range. Whilst cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) provides a powerful adjunct to medical       therapy in the third of patients with dyssynchronous contraction, many patients remain       symptomatic despite CRT, prompting a series of pacing adaptations to try and improve the       technology further. Standard left ventricular leads now include four poles from which a       pacing stimulus can be delivered selectively or in parallel (multi-point pacing), and each of       the manufacturers includes automated software to adjust the intraventricular and       interventricular timing. Despite this, the 'response rate' in clinical practice, however       measured, remains solidly at around 30%. Although overall, these advances might be neutral,       more pacing electrodes, and automatic programs to measure and adjust timing come at a cost of       battery longevity. To counter this many systems now include automatic capture assessment       algorithyms that adjust the pacing stimulus downwards in response to successful LV capture       and upwards in its absence. These have demonstrated reduced average pacing stimulus       amplitude.        Although device longevity is a key contributor to cost-effectiveness, battery longevity may       not be an important variable for people with heart failure, for whom the primary aim is to       maintain or improve their quality of life. Data from 76 consecutive patients implanted with a       CRT device between 2008-2010 demonstrate that over 60% did not survive long enough to require       a second device. Failure to survive to generator replacement was higher in people with worse       LV function, worse symptoms, and those in whom there was no symptomatic improvement. Our data       suggest therefore that in contrast to the situation for pacemakers implanted to treat       bradycardia, battery longevity might be less important in people with heart failure. Our       Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement group was indeed split along these lines.       People with a good quality of life want a long battery life, whereas those with persistent       symptoms were content to accept a reduced battery longevity if this would benefit their       symptoms.        How to determine force-frequency relationship in humans Most work on the Force Frequency       Relationship (FFR) including the expression and function of cellular mechanisms and       contractile responses has been done ex-vivo in myocardial strips either from explanted hearts       during transplantation, or from biopsy material. Assessment of contractility, and the FFR       specifically, in vivo requires a controlled increase in heart rate, and a reliable measure of       contractility which can be achieved non-invasively using cardiac ultrasound to measure LV       end-systolic pressure (LVESP) and end systolic LV volume (LVESV). These are divided by each       other (LVESP/LVESV) to give an end-systolic pressure volume ratio (LVESPVR). LVESP and LVESV       can be measured by invasive and estimated by non-invasive techniques. Following discussion       with our PPI forum to check acceptability, I selected an echocardiographic (cardiac       ultrasound) approach. Using cardiac ultrasound, contractility can be estimated either from       2-dimensional images or by tissue Doppler imaging. Using 2D images to measure the       end-systolic volume index (LVESVi =LVESV/Body surface area (BSA)), and using SBP as a       surrogate of the LV end-systolic pressure one can then estimate contractility as SBP/LVESVi.       This surrogate of contractility has been validated against invasive methods. , Repeated       measurements can be taken and the slope of the FFR can then be calculated as the ratio       between SBP/LVESVi change from baseline / HR increase from baseline. Critical heart rate       (optimal heart rate) is the heart rate at which the SBP/LVESVi reaches the maximum value or       that at which beyond the SBP/LVESVi has declined by 5%. In a negative test, (one where there       is no increase in contractility with HR) the critical heart rate is the baseline heart rate.       Non-invasive methods require an assumption that LVESP is closely related to systolic blood       pressure (SBP). This introduces an approximation, especially in younger subjects, but mostly       there is a tight relationship between peripheral systolic and end-systolic LV pressure and it       will be assumed that any error is systematically distributed along the whole FFR within       individuals.        Rationale for increasing pacemaker output in people with heart failure Limited published data       suggest that higher output pacing can lead to improved timing of depolarization and better LV       hemodynamics. Whether this will translate into improved exercise tolerance or quality of life       with acceptable loss of battery longevity is unknown. This balance is likely to depend upon       individual patient factors and the degree of improvement seen within an individual. The       present project aims to provide information on efficacy in the whole population, and in       groups of individuals, whilst also allowing some description of the mechanisms of the effect       through examination of changes in cardiac function at rest and the force-frequency       relationship as a surrogate of exercise.        This study will answer several of these questions, and provide key pilot data for a larger       study that will explore the benefits of optimizing patients' pacemaker programming to their       individual situation.        PLAN OF INVESTIGATION Workpackage 1 Part A Introduction The present proposal will use       existing CRT pacemakers or defibrillators in patients with CHF to explore the clinical       effects of increased pacing output from the left ventricular lead on cardiac function and       exercise time on a treadmill and also to establish whether the changes in response to the       intervention relate to baseline clinical such as etiology, co-morbidities and severity.        Methods: 105 patients with stable CHF due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction with a       left ventricular ejection fraction <50%and a CRT device will be invited to attend the       clinical research facility at Leeds General Infirmary, aiming for 90 full datasets. Each       patient will undergo and a resting echocardiogram pacemaker interrogation to check for       phrenic nerve stimulation and to establish options for pacing vectors. Demographic and       clinical data (including duration of heart failure symptoms), medical therapy, current       symptomatic status, resting HR and blood pressure will be recorded. Patients without a       cardiopulmonary exercise test from <6 months ago in their clinical record will then undergo       an exercise test to describe peak oxygen consumption and exercise time.        Medical therapy Medical therapy will be continued throughout. Although beta-blockers might       blunt the force frequency induced contractile response in the normal heart in CHF, HR       reduction might improve FFR counteracting the negative inotropic properties of ß-blockers.       Digitalis also has effects on the FFR by increasing intracellular sodium levels, which       enhances calcium influx, restoring the FFR. , which may explain the positive inotropic effect       of cardiac glycosides aside from their heart rate limiting properties. However, these agents       are essential in CHF and information gained in their absence would not reflect the usual       situation for most CHF patients.        Atrial rhythm Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common dysrhythmia in CHF. Whether patients with       AF have an abnormal FFR is unknown. Patients with AF will not be excluded unless heart rate       is poorly controlled (>80bts/min).        Pacing protocol Images will be collected at rest as described above, following which       randomisation will be undertaken by the Leeds Clinical Trials Research Unit who will provide       a telephone service to determine the order of the programming. The unblinded cardiac       physiologist will then program the pacemaker device to a 'high' output setting (aiming to       extend the pulse width and increase the amplitude to the maximum tolerated) or a 'standard'       output setting (with no change to baseline settings). The patient and the echocardiographer       will be unaware of the allocation. Atrial pacing will be initiated in the AAI-mode at 45       beats/min (or the next highest 'round figure' above the baseline heart rate). After four       minutes, images will be recorded, and the pacing rate will then be increased in a stepwise       15-beat interval with images recorded after every four minutes. This step-wise increase will       be repeated until the maximum predicted heart rate as per the calculation by Astrand       (220-age) is reached. At this point peak data will be collected and pacing will then return       to baseline settings. Five minutes after the end of atrial pacing, a final set of images and       a blood pressure will be recorded. Angina pectoris will also stop the test and the heart rate       will be allowed to return to normal. After 10 minutes, this procedure will be repeated with       left ventricular lead output programmed to the other setting (either high output or standard       output).        BP measurement Systolic pressure (SBP) measured using a manual blood pressure cuff and a       standard stethoscope will be used as a surrogate for end-systolic LV pressure. The SBP will       be recorded as the point where the first tapping sound occurs for 2 consecutive beats.        Image recording and image analysis Full baseline echocardiography will be carried out with       grey-scale and tissue Doppler images recorded in the two and four chamber views using       harmonics to improve border definition if necessary. Further images will be recorded at each       15 beat frequency increase during the protocol. Images will be stored in the 'echopac'       digital imaging system and analysed offline in an anonymous and randomised fashion (with HR       data removed). All echocardiographic analyses will be performed offline with the observer       blinded to the clinical status of the patient. This analysis will include a calculation of LV       end diastolic and end systolic volumes using the biplane discs (modified Simpson's) method by       tracing the endocardial border excluding the papillary muscles. An average of three       measurements will be used in the final analysis. The frame at the R-wave will be taken as end       diastole, and the frame with the smallest LV cavity, as end systole.61 The slope of the       exercise ejection fraction will be calculated with the linear best fit from the stress       ejection fraction values. The LV end-systolic volume index (LVESVi) will be calculated at       each stage as LVESV/body surface area.        FFR calculation The contractility at each HR will be calculated as previously described       using: [SBP/LVESVi] and a smoothed graph plotted for each patient to define peak       contractility, the slope of the FFR, and the optimal HR for contractility. The slope of the       FFR will then be calculated as the ratio between SBP/LVESVi increase (from baseline to       optimal heart rate)/HR increase (from baseline to optimal heart rate). FFR will be defined as       up-sloping when peak exercise SBP/LVESVi is higher than baseline at intermediate stress       values (Figure 2), and biphasic when an initial up-sloping is followed by a down-sloping       trend). In a biphasic pattern, the optimal heart rate will be the heart rate beyond which       SBP/LVESVi declines by 5%. The FFR slope will be classed as negative if the optimal heart       rate is the starting heart rate i.e. the slope is downgoing. The investigators expect       reproducibility to be satisfactory since this method of left ventricular volume calculation       during echo is widely used and accepted. In addition, the evaluation of end-systolic volume       has a higher reproducibility than end-diastolic volume from echo images, and only the former       will be used in the calculation. 10 randomly selected patients will be invited for a second       visit and image analysis will also be repeated in 10 further randomly selected patients to       document reproducibility of data collection and analysis.        Statistical considerations Although the data collection is straightforward, the later stages       of the analysis will require complex statistical modelling. Pre-specified subgroups will be       patients with and without ischaemic heart disease, patients with and without type II diabetes       mellitus, patients with and without an echocardiographic response since implant (improvement       in left ventricular ejection fraction >5% OR improvement in left ventricular end systolic       volume index >15%) and patients who do or do not feel themselves to have had a relevant       improvement in symptoms following their CRT implant. In this way it might be possible to       identify subgroups in whom the intervention might be most useful.        Data analysis plan As described, a measure of contractility will be collected at each heart       rate interval. These can be plotted against heart rate for each patient to achieve three       novel variables per patient (peak contractility, heart rate for peak contractility and the       slope of the FFR). A curve will be created for each individual with standard LV output and       then compare this with the same curve created from data collected during high output pacing.       The difference in the three key variables between the two curves will then be compared.        A further key secondary aim is to explore the relationship between key baseline clinical       variables: 1) heart failure aetiology (ischaemic/non-ischaemic), diabetes mellitus (Y/N), and       baseline ejection fraction (as a continuous variable) and the influence of high output left       ventricular pacing on cardiac contractility over the critical heart rate range that is       optimal for that individual.        Part B:        Study design: This will be a randomised placebo-controlled cross-over pilot study designed to       establish the relevance to patients of exercising with high output programming. The       randomisation order provided for the echocardiogram assessment (Part A) for this participant       will be used a second time.        Methods: 40 consecutive attendees will be enrolled to provide 25 evaluable paired data sets       accepting up to a possible 35% drop-out rate from this part of the study due to intolerance       of the high-output setting. Patients will undergo two cardiopulmonary exercise tests one week       apart (but at the same time of the day) on the same protocol, during which their device will       be programmed in a random order to provide either high output pacing on the left ventricular       lead or normal settings. During the test, patients will score their symptoms. During each       exercise test the unblinded cardiac physiologist will monitor the electrocardiograph. Neither       the blinded observer nor the patient will have sight of the electrocardiograph. This       arrangement has worked well previously.        Data analysis plan: Data from the cardiopulmonary exercise tests regarding symptoms (from the       Borg scale) can be related to objective measures of ventilation, oxygen consumption and       workload. The difference in the force frequency relationship through high output pacing found       during echocardiography can then be related to the differences seen during the exercise       tests.        Work package 2:        Introduction: The primary aim of this work package is to determine the longer term effect of       high output pacing while also providing information on safety, tolerability and battery       longevity.        Study design: This will be a randomised, controlled parallel pilot study where the comparator       will be standard output programming.        Methods: 70 consecutive attendees will be enrolled to provide 50 evaluable paired data sets       (25 per group) accepting a possible 30% drop-out rate from this part of the study due to       intolerance of the high-output setting and longer follow-up period - lower because       participants in Workpackage 1 Part B that did not tolerate high-output pacing are less likely       to be asked to participate in Workpackage 2. Randomisation will be undertaken by the Leeds       CTRU after the baseline assessment, (echocardiography, exercise test, blood tests including       B-type natriuretic peptide, and pacemaker battery longevity), who will provide a telephone       service to determine allocation and balance critical baseline variables using minimization:       diabetes mellitus (Y/N), aetiology (ischaemic/non-ischaemic). The unblinded cardiac       physiologist will program the pacemaker device to a 'high' output setting (aiming to extend       the pulse width and increase the amplitude to the maximum tolerated) or a 'low' output       setting (with no change to baseline settings). Patients will receive a telephone call at one       week to ask about angina and phrenic nerve stimulation and then again at 6 months when the       baseline assessments will be repeated.        Statisical considerations: While accounting for a drop out from the second test due to       withdrawal of consent of 30%, to achieve 25 paired evaluable datasets in each group, 70       patients will be recruited.        Data analysis plan: The primary analysis will focus on change in exercise time, with key       secondary endpoints of change in 1) quality of life 2) modified Packer score and 3) left       ventricular structure and function at 6 months. More complex analysis will assess whether       patients' response specifically to exercise time or left ventricular remodeling vary and       whether these relate to the degree of change of the force frequency relationship or       contractility measures. This will help to identify people who may benefit more from the       programming change. In this way additional information for the personalization of pacemaker       programming will be provided, since high output pacing might have an adverse effect on       battery longevity such that perhaps only patients with a clinically relevant improvement or       with persistent symptoms are put forward for such reprogramming.
The purpose of this study is to conduct a comparison in patients' cardiac function, ECG, and       pacemakers' threshold value, time limit and so on among dual chamber pacemaker, and HBP.        The clinic trial is about to conduct pacemaker implantation in 84 participants, which       distribute into dual chamber pacemaker, HBP 2 groups in proportion of 1:1 in random. All of       the participants are supposed to conduct ultrasonic cardiogram (UCG), ECG, BNP and pacemaker       programing.        Methods: conduct pacemaker implantation in 84 patients, which distribute into dual chamber       pacemaker, HBP 2 groups in proportion of 1:1 in random. Patients with The implanting progress       of dual chamber pacemaker: 1. Conducting venipuncture. Subclavian vein is our first choice.       Then investigator will set up two venous channels and implant two guiding wires into       postcava. 2.Putting 2 sheathing canals into heart along with guiding wires. 3.Locating the       sheathing canals, and putting electrodes into canals. 3.Adjusting the electrodes and       revolving them anticlockwise to lead them to right atrium and right ventricle respectively       under the X-ray. 4.Immobilizing electrodes. 5. Some ways to determine whether the electrode       is fixed or not: the head of the electrodes could beat rhythmically with atrium or ventricle       or by testing damage current. 6.Removing the canals and suturing.        The implanting progress of HBP: 1. Conducting venipuncture. Subclavian vein is our first       choice. Then investigator will set up two venous channels and implant two guiding wires into       postcava. One of the guide wire is 120cm in length, 0.035 or 0.038 in diameter, which is       required to lead the C315 sheathing canal. 2.Putting C315 sheathing canal into heart along       with guiding wires. 3.Locating the C315 sheathing canal, and adjusting the head of C315       towards ideal pacing location. 3.Implanting the spiral electrodes and fixing them. Leading       the spiral electrode (type 3830 on Medtronic) to the side of his bundle along the C315 canal       under the X-ray. The other electrode is leaded to right atrium like dual chamber pacemaker       under the X-ray. 4.Revolving the 3830 electrode suitably to Immobilizing it in cardiac       muscle. If the electrode can get the his electric potential and produce his bundle pacing       successfully, investigator revolve the 3830 electrode and immobilize it. 5. Some ways to       determine whether the electrode is fixed or not: the head of the electrodes could beat       rhythmically with atrium or ventricle or by testing damage current. 6.Removing the canals and       suturing.        All of the participants are supposed to be tested ECG, UCG and some pacemaker programming on       pre-operation, 24 hours after operation, 1 month after operation, 3 months after operation, 6       months after operation, 9 months after operation and 1 year after operation.        Collection of relevant data:          1. ECG: testing the amplitude and time limit of QRS, amplitude and dispersion of P wave, PR            duration, QRS duration and QT duration on the same ECG and cardiac cycle. All the data            is tested by two cardiologists respectively.          2. Threshold value, sense and damage current of pacemaker. Two technologists of the            pacemaker detect the threshold value, sense and damage current of the pacemakers            respectively. Then all the data will be collected in average value.          3. UCG: testing the sizes of left atrium (LA), right atrium (RA), left ventricle (LV),            right ventricle (RV) before and after the operation. Besides, the ejection fraction (EF)            of LV and LA, and E peak, A peak and velocity time integral (VTI) of LA will be tested            during the examination. All of the examination will be completed by one cardiologist and            one physician of cardiac uhrasonography.          4. the incidence rate of postoperation complication, heart failure, and arrhythmia:            Cardiologist will contact and ask patients the quality of life by phone or face to face            in 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year. Meanwhile, patients should complete            UCG, and BNP testing during the follow-up visit and complete Holter in 6 months.
This study examines possible risk factors with regard to complications following pacemaker or       implantable defibrillator cardioverter (ICD)implantation. Furthermore validation af the       Danish Pacemaker and ICD Register will be conducted.
nan
Patients with sick sinus syndrome and a double-chamber cardiac pacemaker are studied.          -  To investigate the role of non-pharmacological heart rate change on central hemodynamics            in the first part of the study, the investigators acutely change pacing rate from atrial            paced-atrial sensed (AAI)-mode 60 to 40 to 90 bpm and obtain hemodynamic parameters            noninvasively after a short stabilisation period after each pacemaker rate change.          -  Subsequently, to investigate the acute effects of beta-blockers or ivabradine on central            hemodynamics in the second part of the study, the investigators obtain central            hemodynamic parameters noninvasively after acute administration of atenolol, nebivolol            or ivabradine at the same pacing rate levels used in the first part of the study            (AAI-mode 60, 40 and 90 bpm).
All patients enrolled in the CLEAR study are implanted with a Cylos pacemaker with Closed       Loop Stimulation (CLS) rate adaption technology. Any legally marketed pacing leads may be       implanted with the Cylos family of pacemakers.        Prior to enrollment, patients provide written informed consent and are screened to ensure       they are eligible to participate in the study. Patients enrolled in the study must have been       implanted within 45 days prior to enrollment or are being considered for implant. Once       enrolled and implanted with the Cylos pacemaker, the first 500 patients have 45 days to       complete an ADL Testing visit. At the Activities of Daily Living (ADL) testing visit, each of       the first 500 enrolled patients performs a 6-minute walk test, orthostatic test, and sweep       test in three pacing modes, CLS (DDD-CLS or VVI-CLS), standard rate response (DDDR or VVIR)       and non-rate responsive mode (DDD or VVI). The order of the pacing modes for testing is       randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio. The study primarily analyzes the number of ADL repetitions       performed during the 6-minute walk and sweep tests, pulse pressure during the orthostatic       test, and secondarily analyzes heart rates during all three tests to compare CLS to both rate       responsive and non-rate responsive pacing modes.        For all enrolled patients, the study collects additional data over a 12-month period.       Patients are randomized and their pacemaker programmed to one of three pacing modes, CLS, R,       or no-rate response in a 2:1:1 ratio, respectively. The patients are then followed for a       period of 12 months after the ADL testing (first 500 enrolled patients) or enrollment       (patients 501 through 1500). The study collects the following secondary measures to compare       CLS to both rate responsive and non-rate responsive pacing modes: changes in 6-minute walk       test distance, quality of life, mode reprogramming, atrial fibrillation (AF) burden, cardiac       symptoms, and New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification.
nan
nan
Assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver diseases provides staging and       prognostic information critical in establishing treatment priorities. The gold standard       evaluation of liver fibrosis is hampered by the invasive nature of liver biopsies. FibroScan       is a non-invasive alternative that has been extensively validated in chronic hepatitis C,       chronic hepatitis B, alcoholic liver disease, and non- alcoholic fatty liver disease       patients.        To avoid unknown risks of potential interaction, the manufacturer have advised against the       use of the device in patients with active implantable medical device including cardiac       pacemaker and/or implantable cardioverter-defibrillators(ICD). Review of the literature       showed that these two population have been specifically excluded in all previously reported       studies.        At the time of writing, no specific reports have demonstrated either safety or potential harm       of the FibroScan in patients with pacemaker/ICD. Given the proven benefit of the FibroScan in       chronic liver disease and the current policy of excluding patients with pacemaker/ICD in       clinical practice, this study aims to formally evaluate the safe use of the FibroScan in this       population within the controlled environment of a pacemaker lab.
nan
Treatment:        Video- assisted pericardioscopic surgery for implanting epimyocardial pacemaker leads        Abridged Operation Protocol:        10 mm skin incision below the xiphoid process, blunt preparation towards the pericardial sac,       insertion of the endoscope-carrying trocar, opening of the pericardium with endoscopic       forceps, standardised inspection of the pericardial cavity, insertion of the bipolar       Stingray® electrode via the endoscope working channel into pericardial space, implantation of       the electrode into designated epimyocardial site under endoscopic vision, pacing measurements       sensing, impedance, pacing threshold, interventricular delay (in CRT), panoramic fluoroscopy       for future controls, retraction of the endoscope/trocar, subcutaneous tunnelling and       connection of the respective electrode to:          -  existing, infraclavicular CRT device, suture in layers, wound dressing          -  a single- or dual-chamber pacemaker device implanted epigastrically, suture in layers,            wound dressing
nan
Heart failure is a chronic, progressive condition in which the heart muscle is unable to pump       enough blood through to meet the body's needs for blood and oxygen. Safeguarding HF patients       at increased risk of sudden cardiac death due to ventricular arrhythmias and HF as a result       of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and cardiac abnormal synchronization has continued       to improve. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), which restore normal heart rhythm       using pacing, cardioversion or defibrillation, and cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT),       which resynchronizes the contraction of the heart using biventricular pacing, are nowadays       widely used to treat the aforementioned conditions.        New developments in medical treatments have focused on the primary affected organs, targeting       reduced left ventricular ejection fraction in chronic HF. Although major breakthroughs in the       treatments have occurred in recent years, especially implantable medical devices, it is clear       that when drugs are optimally prescribed, even the latest technology used in pacemakers       reported problems, especially functional impairments and symptoms often remain. In recent       decades, it has become obvious that disease severity should not be estimated from cardiac       function impairment alone. However, what has not hitherto been clearly investigated is the       fact that even functional and maximal exercise capacity, respiratory and peripheral muscle       strength and pulmonary function are impaired, and dyspnea in the activities of daily living       and fatigue perception increased in HF patients with pacemakers.        Hence, investiators designed a prospective, cross-sectional study to compare the       aforementioned outcomes in HF patients with pacemakers and healthy controls. Investigators       hypothesized that functional and maximal exercise capacity, respiratory and peripheral muscle       strength, and pulmonary function are impaired, and dyspnea in the activities of daily living,       and fatigue perception increased in HF patients with pacemakers.        A cross-sectional study. 50 HF patients with pacemakers and 40 controls were compared.       Functional (6-Minute Walking test (6-MWT)) and maximal exercise capacity (Incremental Shuttle       Walking test (ISWT)), respiratory (MIP, MEP; Mouth pressure device) and peripheral muscle       strength (Dynamometer), pulmonary function (Spirometry) dyspnea (Modified Medical Research       Council Dyspnea scale) (MMRC)), and fatigue (Fatigue Severity scale (FSS)) were evaluated.
The purpose of this study is to conduct a comparison in patients' cardiac function, ECG, and       pacemakers' threshold value, time limit and so on among dual chamber pacemaker and HBP.        The clinic trial is about to conduct pacemaker implantation in 84 participants, which       distribute into dual chamber pacemaker, HBP 2 groups in proportion of 1:1 in random. All of       the participants are supposed to conduct ultrasonic cardiogram (UCG), ECG, BNP and pacemaker       programing.        Methods: conduct pacemaker implantation in 84 patients, which distribute into dual chamber       pacemaker, HBP 2 groups in proportion of 1:1 in random. Patients with The implanting progress       of dual chamber pacemaker: 1. Conducting venipuncture. Subclavian vein is our first choice.       Then investigator will set up two venous channels and implant two guiding wires into       postcava. 2.Putting 2 sheathing canals into heart along with guiding wires. 3.Locating the       sheathing canals, and putting electrodes into canals. 3.Adjusting the electrodes and       revolving them anticlockwise to lead them to right atrium and right ventricle respectively       under the X-ray. 4.Immobilizing electrodes. 5. Some ways to determine whether the electrode       is fixed or not: the head of the electrodes could beat rhythmically with atrium or ventricle       or by testing damage current. 6.Removing the canals and suturing.        The implanting progress of HBP: 1. Conducting venipuncture. Subclavian vein is our first       choice. Then investigator will set up two venous channels and implant two guiding wires into       postcava. One of the guide wire is 120cm in length, 0.035 or 0.038 in diameter, which is       required to lead the C315 sheathing canal. 2.Putting C315 sheathing canal into heart along       with guiding wires. 3.Locating the C315 sheathing canal, and adjusting the head of C315       towards ideal pacing location. 3.Implanting the spiral electrodes and fixing them. Leading       the spiral electrode (type 3830 on Medtronic) to the side of his bundle along the C315 canal       under the X-ray. The other electrode is leaded to right atrium like dual chamber pacemaker       under the X-ray. 4.Revolving the 3830 electrode suitably to Immobilizing it in cardiac       muscle. If the electrode can get the his electric potential and produce his bundle pacing       successfully, investigator revolve the 3830 electrode and immobilize it. 5. Some ways to       determine whether the electrode is fixed or not: the head of the electrodes could beat       rhythmically with atrium or ventricle or by testing damage current. 6.Removing the canals and       suturing.        Both of the dual chamber pacemaker and the HBP should ensure to keep 100% pacemaking rate in       60-70 bpm heart rate.        All of the participants are supposed to be tested ECG, UCG and some pacemaker programming on       pre-operation and 7 days after the operation.        Collection of relevant data:        Threshold value, sense and damage current of pacemaker. Two technologists of the pacemaker       detect the threshold value, sense and damage current of the pacemakers respectively. Then all       the data will be collected in average value.        UCG: testing the sizes of left atrium (LA), right atrium (RA), left ventricle (LV), right       ventricle (RV) before and after the operation. Besides, the ejection fraction (EF) of LV and       LA, and E peak, A peak and velocity time integral (VTI) of LA will be tested during the       examination. All of the examination will be completed by one cardiologist and one physician       of cardiac uhrasonography. Meanwhile, patients should complete BNP testing during the       follow-up visit pre-operation and 7 days after the operation.
Due to its integrated long-distance telemetry, the implantable pacemaker Philos II DR-T is       capable of periodically transmitting data from the pacemaker memory to the BIOTRONIK Service       Center via patient device. The BIOTRONIK Service Center decodes the data and presents it to       the physician on a password secured internet site. Additionally, in case certain event       criteria are met, the most important Home Monitoring information are immediately faxed to the       physician as an Event Report. These events can be customised by the physician. Thus, the       physician will be able to closely monitor the patient and check the adequacy and efficiency       of the pacemaker therapy without requiring the patient to visit the physician. The       transmitted data comprise information on atrial and ventricular rhythm, atrioventricular       conduction and system status.        The purpose of the national prospective, randomized, multicentric clinical study "COMPArative       follow-up Schedule with home monitoring" (COMPAS) described here is to evaluate the benefits       of pacemaker follow-up with home monitoring in France. The standard follow-up or therapeutic       intervention will be deemed based on faxed event Reports reception and Cardio reports       analysis on internet site. During the clinical study, the incidence of serious adverse events       (hospitalisation, pacemaker dysfunction, and cardiovascular events), economic impact, safety,       and practicability will be analysed. The findings from the ACTIVE group will be compared to       those of a group receiving standard of care (CONTROL group). Both patient groups are followed       for 18 months and will be followed with Home Monitoring switched on. The data from the       CONTROL group will not be presented online to the attending physician, but a retrospective       analysis on differences between the two groups will be performed.        The trial will be conducted as a prospective, randomised, open, multicenter, national       clinical trial. The enrollment of 400 patients in 50 clinical centres in France is       anticipated. The principal inclusion criterion is indication for dual chamber pacemaker/ICD       implantation. Main exclusion criteria comprise pacemaker dependency.
nan
nan
The Clinically Actionable Events (CAE) were identified based on their relation to other       comorbidities that may increase the risk of a serious cardiac event. The defined events are:          1. Atrial Tachycardia/Atrial Fibrillation (AT/AF) episodes of greater than 48 hours defined            as two consecutive days in which the device records at least 18 hours of AT/AF per day          2. Ventricular pacing that has increased by 30 percent (relative) since the last device            interrogation          3. A sensed ventricular response of greater than 100 beats per minute (BPM) during atrial            tachyarrhythmia for at least 20 percent of the time since the previous device            interrogation          4. Runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT) greater than 5 beats          5. New onset of AT/AF among patients with no history of AT/AF          6. Loss of atrial capture          7. Loss of ventricular capture          8. Increase in atrial pacing voltage threshold greater than 1 volt (V)          9. Increase in ventricular pacing voltage threshold greater than 1 volt (V)         10. & 11. Significant change in atrial or ventricular lead impedance, defined as any of the            following:               1. Less than 200 or greater than 2000 ohms (Ω)               2. Unstable lead impedance deemed to be clinically actionable               3. Greater than 50 percent change in lead impedance since last interrogation        12. Elective Replacement Indicator (ERI)/Battery End of Life (EOL) indicators
The object of the investigation relates to the function named Sleep Apnea Monitoring or SAM       function. This function is part of the REPLY 200 DR pacemakers, whose intended use is cardiac       pacing. Sleep Apnea Syndrom (SAS) causes serious social and economic problems, not only       because of its high prevalence but also because it is associated with increased       cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.        Patients with Sleep Apnea often have arterial and pulmonary hypertension, a high risk of       coronary artery disease, and heart failure, whereas a high percentage of patients show heart       rhythm disturbances. In addition, these patients are at increased risk of being involved in       traffic accidents, as well as suffering a decline in their family, social, and professional       lives. Therefore, the prompt diagnosis of these patients could be of great importance. Today       the gold standard for the diagnosis of SAS is overnight polysomnography (PSG) in a sleep       laboratory. However, the shortage of sleep laboratories and the high cost of PSG render this       method inadequate for widespread screening. For these reasons, in recent years, there have       been attempts to develop alternative diagnostic with a view to simplify the diagnosis.        Thanks to the feature SAM included in the pacemaker, sequences of respiratory cycles are       analyzed to detect, to count and to report abnormal breathing events during the night. This       analysis is based on the Minute Ventilation (MV) signal. The MV signal represents the real       time expansion/contraction of the thorax of the patient. It is derived of the transthoracic       impedance periodic measurements. The device is able to provide the physician with day-by-day       Respiratory Disturbance Index (RDI) equal to the sum of events divided by the number of hours       per night. Physician will also access to the total number of events over the previous night       presented per hour.
The benefits of habitual physical activity (PA, activities of at least moderate intensity       defined as ≥ 3 metabolic equivalents (METs)) are well-recognized. Emerging information from       large data sets strongly suggest high levels of sedentary behavior, defined as activities       <1.5 METs (equivalent to the amount of energy expended during seated activities such as       computer work) increases the risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and death, independent       of the amount and intensity PA. The increased risk of sedentary behavior appears to be       mediated at least in part by reduced insulin sensitivity, impaired lipid metabolism,       increased vascular inflammation, and increased thrombotic tendencies.        The internal accelerometer embedded in Medtronic pacemakers registers, stores, and reports       total number of "active time" based on a threshold activity intensity level of approximately       70 steps/min (estimated to be > 1.5 METs). This implanted accelerometer, combined with the       regular follow-up required for appropriate care make individuals who have undergone Medtronic       pacemaker implantation an ideal population in which to evaluate the impact of altering       sedentary behavior on mortality and cardiovascular events.        The hypotheses are as follows:          1. a 12 week intervention to increase moderate intensity physical activity delivered at the            point of care in patients with pacemakers will result in parallel increases in active            time as measured by the pacemaker and step count as measured by pedometer.          2. the increase in activity measured by both the metrics in hypothesis 1 will be greater            than with usual care.        Potential subjects who are interested in the study will have a screening visit to determine       whether they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Those who qualify and agree to       participate will be randomized into either the Physical Activity Counseling arm (intervention       arm) or the Patient Usual Care arm (control arm).        Subjects in the interventional arm will be given a pedometer and physical activity counseling       on a regular basis for 3 months. Physical activity data from their external pedometer will be       collected every 2 weeks via phone calls. Accelerometry data from the implanted pacemaker will       be collected from the subject's medical record as pacemaker interrogations are performed       every 3 months as part of routine clinical care. After the initial 3 month interventional       phase is complete, these subjects will be followed for another 3 months with collection of       pedometer as well as accelerometer data as described above.        Subjects in the control arm will be given pedometers for the week prior to pacemaker       interrogation. These subjects will be called to report the number of steps they walked each       day prior to the interrogation. Their accelerometry data will be captured through routine       clinical pacemaker interrogations.        The primary outcome is the physical activity level in each group as measured by the       accelerometer at time 0, 3 months and 6 months. The secondary outcome is the step count in       each group as measured by the pedometer at the same time points.
Due to HUD status, this protocol is for implant only. This is NOT a clinical trial.
Several studies have shown that dual chamber (DDD) pacemaker therapy relieves LV outflow       obstruction and improves symptoms in most adult patients with obstructive hypertrophic       cardiomyopathy (HCM). It is however, uncertain whether DDD pacing will be efficacious in       children with obstructive HCM, because of evolving cardiac morphology and increased LV       hypertrophy and outflow obstruction associated with rapid body growth. We propose to monitor       clinical progress, and cardiac morphologic and hemodynamic changes over several years       following implantation of a DDD pacemaker in children who present with obstructive HCM       between the ages of 5 to 15 years. Functional status, myocardial ischemia, arrhythmias, and       LV outflow obstruction will be evaluated by exercise tests, echocardiography, thallium       scintigraphy, Holter monitoring, electrophysiologic and cardiac catheterization studies. The       results of pacemaker therapy will be compared with the findings in a cohort of young patients       with obstructive HCM who elect not to be treated with DDD pacemaker.
Purpose of the study. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of a fibrin       sealant (Tissucol-Baxter) in prevention pocket haematoma and subsequent complications in       patients who required implantation/replacement of a pacemaker or ICD wich cannot discontinue       dual antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy.        Target. The primary endpoint is to test the impact of pocket haematoma in patients treated       with tissucol compared to a conventional treatment with vacuum drainage system without dual       antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy discontinuation.        The secondary endpoint is to compare the length of hospitalization between the two groups.        Type of study. Prospective, randomized, single center, open label.        Materials and methods. Will be consecutively enrolled approximately 100 patients.        Inclusion criteria: patients over the age of eighteen who require an initial implantation or       replacement of a device (pacemaker, biventricular pacemaker, ICD) treated with:          -  dual antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel or prasugrel or ticlopidine, and acetylsalicylic            acid) or          -  anticoagulants (warfarin or heparin or low molecular weight heparin). Patients Do not            discontinue the antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy.        According to a randomization list, patients will be assigned to tissucol treatment or vacuum       drainage system:          -  50 patients: treated with local application of tissucol in the pocket of pacemaker/ICD;          -  50 patients: treated with vacuum drainage system.
If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 3 sets of questionnaires (at the       beginning of the study, at 2-months and at 4-months) which will be sent to you and returned       by you through the mail. This will not require you to travel to M.D. Anderson. In addition to       the questionnaires, you will also complete 2 follow-up phone interviews.        Questionnaires:        The first set of questionnaires will be mailed to your home. The questionnaires will ask       questions about your anxiety level and how much you know about pacemakers or implantable       cardioverter-defibrillators. There will also be questions about your gender, age, ethnicity,       and race. The questionnaires will take about 25 minutes to complete. When you are finished,       you will mail the questionnaires to the study staff. An envelope with pre-paid postage will       be provided.        Educational Packet:        After you have completed the questionnaires, you will receive an educational packet in the       mail. The packet will have a DVD or a video (depending on whether you tell us you have a DVD       player or a VHS player) with information on medical devices, device recall information (when       and why certain devices have been recalled in the past), a list of on-line resources and       benefits of routine follow-up.        Phone Interview:        The study staff will call your home 1 week after you receive the educational packet for a       follow-up interview. A member of the study staff will review the packet with you. The phone       call will last about 20 minutes.        Additional Questionnaires:        Approximately 2 months and at 4 months after you complete the first set of questionnaires, an       additional set of questionnaires will be mailed to you. You will be asked to complete the       same questionnaires as you did in the first set. At 4 months an additional questionnaire       about the information in the educational packet and how useful it was to you will be       included. The questionnaires will take about 25 minutes to complete. When you are finished,       you will mail the questionnaires to the study staff. An envelope with pre-paid postage will       be provided.        Length of Study:        You participation on this study is complete once you have completed the additional       questionnaires.        This is an investigational study. Up to 104 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will       be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
nan
Heart rate lowering is a cornerstone of the management of chronic heart failure (CHF) and the       degree of lowering is closely related to improvements in longevity, hospitalisation rate and       heart function. The investigators have shown that increasing heart rates using pacemakers       does not increase exercise capacity in CHF patients. This might be because the optimal heart       rate range for contraction is narrower for patients with CHF. At higher heart rates, heart       contraction might be less strong. The investigators now want to examine the relationship       between heart rate and heart contraction in patients with heart failure and pacemakers.       Tailored pacemaker heart rate setting's, individually optimised for heart contractility as       assessed by cardiac ultrasound, will be investigated to examine the effects on exercise       tolerance .
Background          1. Chronic heart failure Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a common syndrome of breathlessness            and fatigue associated with left ventricular systolic dysfunction. It affects 2% of            individuals between 50 and 60 years of age, and increases in prevalence to 10% over the            age of 80 years.          2. Cardiac resynchronisation therapy Cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) involves the            implantation of a pacemaker capable of stimulating the heart (specifically the left            ventricle) from both the front of the heart, the right ventricle RV (as is usual with            conventional pacemakers) and from the back of the heart (known as the lateral wall) via            the coronary sinus, aiming to improve the timing of cardiac contraction (dyssynchrony)            and hence the pumping function of the heart in order to improve symptoms of            breathlessness and fatigue.             Early data in patients with left bundle branch block and severe heart failure, suggested            improved exercise capacity and left ventricular function. More recent data have            demonstrated not only improved symptoms, but also reduced hospital admissions, and            improved overall mortality.             Current guidelines drawn up using the data from randomised trials, suggest that CRT            should be offered to patients with left bundle branch block with a QRS > 150ms and            severe (class III and IV) heart failure despite optimal medical therapy. Patients with a            QRS duration of between 120 and 150ms should be assessed for mechanical dyssynchrony            before being offered a device.          3. Heart failure in the pacemaker population               -  Prevalence In 307 patients with pacemakers, 94 (31%) had left ventricular ejection                 fraction (LVEF) < 40% and 83 (27%) had symptoms of heart failure. RV pacing is                 associated with an increase in heart failure-related hospitalisation and mortality,                 and in patients with left ventricular dysfunction the presence of a right                 ventricular apical pacemaker is a strong predictor of future deterioration in left                 ventricular function.               -  Aetiology of pacemaker-related heart failure Many patients receiving RV pacemakers                 are elderly with a background of ischaemic heart disease or hypertension, both of                 which contribute to the development of heart failure. In addition RV pacing induces                 dyssynchrony, no different to that of left bundle branch block (LBBB). Dyssynchrony                 leads to altered regional blood flow and wall stress. The severity of these                 perfusion abnormalities, the regional wall motion abnormalities and the associated                 deterioration in global left ventricular function are directly related to the                 duration of pacing. These changes can be identified after only 18 months of pacing.                 The induction of dyssynchrony by RV apical pacing seems therefore to lead to                 adverse LV remodeling, LV dilatation, asymmetrical hypertrophy.               -  Management of pacemaker-related heart failure In any one patient the exact                 aetiology of a deterioration of LV dysfunction is often unclear. What has become                 routine practice however, is an attempt to avoid RV pacing unless absolutely                 necessary and several programmes within commercially available devices now exist to                 facilitate this. The options in patients with a high degree of heart block on the                 other hand remain limited to aggressive medical therapy with beta-blockers and                 angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.             The effects of upgrading conventional pacemaker systems to those capable of delivering            resynchronisation therapy have been incompletely investigated. There have only been            retrospective series examining the impact of upgrading conventional pacemakers to CRT            systems. Early data demonstrated the safety of adapting standard pacemakers to provide            biventricular stimulation and suggested improvements in LV function. One study,            involving 20 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation and AV nodal ablation, showed            that adding an LV lead was associated with improved LV systolic function, reduced            hospitalisations and improved quality of life. Other reports examining the impact of CRT            in patients with chronic RV pacing on acute echocardiographic variables of LV systolic            function and reductions in electromechanical delay and beneficial haemodynamic effects            of biventricular pacing in 15 and 20 patients with pre-existing RV pacemakers. More            recently a cross-over study of 44 patients requiring generator replacement demonstrated            improved symptoms and LV function with 3 months of CRT when compared with 3 months of RV            pacing. There are also data from small series demonstrating improvements of            echocardiographic strain variables (in 12 patients) and symptoms in patients with            significant CHF upgraded from conventional pacemakers to CRT systems          4. Aim of this study We propose to randomise 50 patients with ventricular dysfunction            listed for pulse generator replacement to receive either a standard right ventricular            generator replacement, or to be upgraded to a resynchronisation device. These patients            will then be reassessed at six months to establish the effects of this policy on left            ventricular function and exercise capacity.        Experimental design          1. Patients All patients will have undergone an echocardiogram, exercise test and renal            function check as part of the survey of all patients undergoing pacemaker battery change            at Leeds General Infirmary. If reducing or avoiding RV pacing to below 80% is not            possible, patients with LV dysfunction (LVEF < 50%) will be invited to participate in            the randomised controlled trial of standard generator replacement or upgrade to CRT.          2. Procedures Patients will then be randomised to receive either an upgraded system or a            pacemaker generator replacement as standard. Following the implant, subjects will be            seen at 6 weeks and three months in the pacemaker clinic as is usual. The 6 monthly            visit will include repeat echocardiography, an exercise test with metabolic gas            exchange, repeat blood tests, 24 hour urine collection and symptom assessment.               -  Devices Patients will either receive a standard pacemaker appropriate to their                 pacing indication, but with the capacity of keeping RV pacing to a minimum if                 possible, or will be implanted with an LV lead and a generator capable of providing                 resynchronisation pacing.               -  Risk of the implant procedure From large registries, left ventricular lead                 implantation is successful in 92% and the procedure is safe with fewer than 8%                 requiring re-operation and around 10% complication rate. In our experience of > 100                 upgrades for severe symptomatic heart failure, we have had no deaths, one                 re-operation for an initial failure to place the LV lead, and no infections.               -  Patients with atrial fibrillation The presence of atrial fibrillation reduces the                 benefit from CRT in randomised controlled trials. However, registries continue to                 demonstrate similar overall benefits on symptoms and left ventricular function and                 hospitalisation for both groups, albeit with no improvement in the rate of                 maintenance of sinus rhythm following CRT. Recent data have suggested that patients                 with AV node ablation and atrial fibrillation, have a similar symptomatic response                 rate as patients in sinus rhythm whereas those without AV node ablation do not                 benefit. It is therefore postulated that the benefits of CRT are dependant upon a                 high percentage of resynchronisation pacing (> 90%) and that patients with atrial                 fibrillation with an intact AV node fail to respond because of intermittent                 intrinsic conduction. In the present investigation however, our patients will be                 have demonstrated dependency upon ventricular pacing for rate support. We will                 therefore include patients with atrial fibrillation in our study, albeit with a                 stratified randomisation to ensure they are equally distributed between the upgrade                 and standard generator change arm.          3. Endpoints The primary endpoint will be an improvement in left ventricular function as            measured by left by echocardiography. Secondary endpoints will include changes in            exercise capacity, renal function and quality of life score.          4. Power calculations               -  Left ventricular function Previous short term studies provide some guide as to the                 potential benefit of upgrading RV pacing systems to CRT. In patients with important                 heart failure a population of 20 patients crossed over at three months demonstrated                 an improvement in exercise capacity of 1.5ml.kg.min-1 from 12.5 (2.9)ml.kg.min-1 to                 14 (3.0)ml.kg.min-1. There was also an improvement in LVEF from 26.1(8)% to                 34.8(9)% and a reduction in BNP from 2405pmol.l-1 (not normally distributed) to                 1667pmol.l-1. Each of these changes was significant to less than the 0.02 level.               -  Exercise capacity Although patients randomised into the present proposal will have                 better baseline exercise capacity and less severe ventricular dysfunction than                 patients recruited to previous studies of CRT, we will avoid the potential                 disadvantage of cross-over, and will follow them up for longer. We therefore expect                 similar magnitudes of benefit (5% improvement in LV function and 1.5 ml.kg.min¬-1).                 We estimate an LV lead implant failure rate of around 8%, and a loss to follow up                 of 5%. Hence we estimate that to identify a significant difference with a power of                 90% between RV pacing and CRT after six months that we need to recruit 50 patients                 (25 to each arm). Results will be analysed on an intention to treat basis.
There are growing numbers of endocardial permanent pacemakers (PPM) and implantable       cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) device.       Asymptomatic obstruction of the access vein reported to have a high incidence (30-50%) in       some studies. This complication can cause some difficulties in follow up procedures such as       device upgrading. The purpose of this study is to determine whether Aspirin or Clopidogrel       are effective in the prevention of venous obstruction after implantation of cardiac pacemaker       or defibrillator.
The LIFE Study will estimate the prevalence of CI among a general sample of pacemaker       patients and compare changes in quality of life and physical activity between patients       randomized to receive rate response driven by either blended sensor or accelerometer. Changes       in chronotropic response between CI patients randomized to either blended sensor or       accelerometer will be compared. A sub-study will evaluate changes in functional capacity       between CI patients randomized to either blended sensor or accelerometer.
72 patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFREF) who have been selected       to receive an Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator (ICD) or Cardiac Resynchronization       Therapy Pacemaker or Defibrillator (CRT-P/D) will undergo pre-implant assessment with an       echocardiogram, B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) level, 6 minute walk test, Minnesota living       with heart failure and Epworth sleepiness questionnaires. The patients will then have the       device implanted. 6 to 8 weeks later the patent will undergo an Embletta home sleep study and       download of the ApneaScan data from the device. The mean Apnoea-Hypopnoea Index (AHI) from       the ApneaScan download will be compared with that derived from the sleep study. The patients       will also have a repeat 6 minute walk test, echocardiogram and BNP level.        2 years after device implantation, all patients will be followed up to document deaths,       hospital admissions, Atrial Fibrillation (AF) burden and appropriate therapies from ICD       devices.
nan
This is an exploratory single-centre, open label, non-randomised, prospective cohort study       comparing rate responsive pacing (RRP) with CRT in patients with confirmed HFpEF and       chronotropic incompetence.        Setting:        The study will be conducted in Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, with patients drawn       from Cardiology clinics and inpatient wards. Follow-up assessments will be conducted at       Cardiff School of Sport, a research facility at a university campus close to the main       hospital.        Number of subjects planned:        10 patients. This will be sufficient to establish estimates of variability in the diastolic       reserve index (see below), allow estimation of treatment difference and gauge acceptability.        Target population:        Subjects with HFpEF and chronotropic incompetence        Endpoints:        Systolic and diastolic longitudinal reserve index are calculated by the following formulae:        Systolic reserve = Δs' x [1-(1/s'rest)] Diastolic reserve = Δe' x [1-(1/e'rest)]        These are known to be impaired in patients with HFpEF and are a marker of adaptation to       exercise in terms of filling pressures and left ventricular relaxation. Tan et al report a       significant difference between the results seen with 56 patients with HFpEF and 27 control       subjects on exercise echocardiography with semi-supine bicycle.16 Patient characteristics       were similar to those of our proposed study group (Ejection fraction (EF) >50%, New York       Heart Association (NYHA) classification grade II, HFpEF according to Vasan and Levy       criteria).28        The investigators will therefore investigate diastolic and systolic reserve index as possible       endpoints of a future study into the efficacy of CRT versus RRP in HFpEF patients.        Planned interventions:        Visit 1 - Baseline Assessments: Patients will undergo initial assessment of baseline       characteristics by echocardiography, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, 6-minute walk test       (6MWT) and Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ). (Visit length: approx.       4 hours)        Visit 2 - Device Implantation (≤ 7 days after baseline assessments completed):        Eligible subjects will undergo implantation of a biventricular pacemaker under normal       laboratory conditions. The device will be programme to administer rate-responsive pacing       (DDDR). They will return to pacing clinic a week later for a programming check; during this       visit, they will also undergo a chest x-ray according to local protocol to ensure correct       lead placement (Visit length: 1 day + 2 hours)        Visit 3 - Assessments and Device Reprogramming After 12 weeks, the baseline parameters will       be reassessed and patients will then have their device non-invasively reprogrammed to CRT.       (Visit length: approx. 4 hours)        Visit 4 - Assessments After a further 12 weeks, the baseline assessments will be repeated.       The pacemaker will be non-invasively reprogrammed to DDDR mode and the patient will go home.       (Visit length: approx. 4 hours)        Optional extension (pending analysis of results) Visit 5 - Reprogramming If incremental       benefit has been demonstrated with CRT above the benefit of RRP, the echocardiograms will be       examined to establish the mechanism of improvement. Subjects will be invited to participate       in a study extension using multisite technology. The device will be non-invasively       reprogrammed to optimise the CRT settings targeted specifically for the mechanism identified.       (Visit length: approx. 3 hour)        Visit 6 - Assessments 12 weeks after the final reprogramming, patients will attend for a       final set of assessments as per baseline. Participant involvement will then cease. (Visit       length: approx. 4 hours)        Total contact time with research team: Approximately 27 hours (22 hours without extension)
This observational trial aims to study the evolution of the PR interval in patients implanted       with a dual chamber pacemaker with the SafeR mode. The investigators will assess the       prevalence and the incidence of PR lengthening and the investigators will study the long PR       interval management by physicians, depending on the data embedded in the pacemaker.
With advancement in technology, people are exposed to new sources of electromagnetic field       like tablets and smart phones. There are magnets in smart phones and tablets that could       affect the functions of pacemakers. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects       of electromagnetic field exposure from using a tablet and a smart phone with participants       that have a leadless pacemaker (MICRA device) implanted inside them. Participants will be       asked to report any symptoms that they experience during the testing.
The goal of this study is to pilot test a randomized, controlled, non-inferiority trial       comparing the survival and quality of life (QOL) of older patients receiving cardiac       resynchronization therapy (CRT) pacemaker (CRT-P) versus defibrillator (CRT-D) therapy. This       pilot will enroll 50 HF patients (age ≥ 75 years) undergoing CRT device implantation at the       hospitals of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Duke University, Ohio State       University, and the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System. Patients will be randomized to CRT-P       versus CRT-D and followed until study end. Rates of patient screening, enrollment,       randomization, and retention as well as cost of care will be examined. The results of this       pilot study will inform the design of a large pivotal non-inferiority trial and will be       necessary for its success. Patients who refuse participation in the randomized pilot trial       will be enrolled and followed as part of a prospective observational cohort. Characteristics       of patients who choose CRT-P vs. CRT-D will be compared and patients' level of satisfaction       with their device decision will be measured.
A referring physician will request an outpatient MRI in an implanted device patient through       an order placed in the electronic ordering system, over the telephone to the MRI scheduling       office, or by directly contacting a radiologist or MRI technologist. Upon receiving such a       request, the referring physician will be sent a copy of the attached screening form, which is       used for all implanted device patients. The form includes instructions for obtaining approval       for the study and space for documenting ordering physician, study indication, and information       about the patient's implanted device (if their device is not followed by a UPHS physician).       For CMS beneficiaries, an addition to the form will discuss the clinical trial and ask the       referring physician how the results of the MRI will change patient treatment or prognosis and       what would be done were an MRI not available. The approval of an attending radiologist in the       radiology section that will be interpreting the study (e.g. neuroradiology for brain MRI,       cardiovascular imaging for cardiac MRI) is required.        Once the patient is deemed eligible and consented, the study staff will enter the patient       into the registry as well as register them onto the trial through PennChart.
nan
The purpose of this study is to assess the incidence of fast heart rates that originate in       the upper chamber of the heart (atrial tachyarrhythmias) in pacemaker patients that have not       been previously diagnosed with this condition. The study will also look at how the diagnostic       feature in the pacemaker that detects atrial tachyarrhythmias helps physicians with the       medical management of patients' heart rhythm.
Permanent cardiac pacing plays an important role in cardiac disease management. Since early       studies on right ventricular pacing, apex has been the preferred implant site for transvenous       endocardial ventricular leads for several reasons: ease of placement, lead stability as well       as the design characteristics of the electrode and the fixation system.        It is now also accepted, however, that right ventricle pacing causes a long term       deterioration of left ventricular function through complex effects, both at the structural       level of the heart wall and at the hemodynamic level in left ventricular load conditions. It       is possible that this deterioration is due to a dyssynchrony of contraction induced by pacing       at the right ventricular apex. Some authors suggest to pace the right ventricle at       alternative sites, i.e. the medium septum (RVS) region, to guarantee a more physiological       activation pattern, especially in patients expected to receive high pacing percentages.        However, unequivocal evidences that stimulation of the right ventricular septum is more       physiological than the apical pacing are still missing.        Nonetheless, it should be noted that, although a number of studies refer to RV septum as the       alternative site for pacing , poor attention has been paid to the unambiguous definition of       RV septum region itself. A clear definition and a proper evaluation of the alternative site       is therefore important.        Furthermore, from a procedural point of view, it has been demonstrated that acute and chronic       electrical performances of the leads positioned at alternative sites, in particular in the       region of mid septum, are equivalent to those of the leads positioned at the apical site.        The purpose of this study is to perform a comprehensive assessment of the electrical and       mechanical measures obtained by pacing standard RV site (Right ventricular apex, RVA) and       alternative RV site (right ventricular septum, RVS). Specifically, the two pacing sites will       be compared in terms of electrical dyssynchrony, as assessed by ECG criteria, and in terms of       mechanical dyssynchrony, as assessed by echocardiographic criteria.        The primary end point of the study is defined through the evaluation of dyssynchrony measured       both in spontaneous rhythm (Vs) and paced rhythm (Vp). The delay between the time to peak       systolic velocity of the septum and the LV free wall will be used to define the degree of       dyssynchrony; this measurement will be obtained by TDI echocardiographic technique.        Patients will receive any commercially available dual-chamber implantable pacemakers,       according to current standard indications. At the end of the implantation and at follow-up       visits (12 and 24 months) device programming will follow the clinical practice of the center.
nan
The study is a prospective, non-randomized, multi-center observational study designed to       evaluate the utilization of diagnostic capabilities, indications, MRI scanning capabilities       and clinical outcomes of patients implanted with SJM pacemakers.        The total duration of the study is expected to be approximately 30 months. The clinical study       will be conducted in up to 160 centers across Europe, Middle East, Africa, (EMEA region) and       Asia, Australia and New Zealand (Asia-Pac region). Approximately 2016 subjects will be       enrolled in this study. Subjects will be followed for 1 year after pacemaker implant.
nan
Pacemaker- and defibrillator lead implants typically involve vascular access via the left       cephalic, axillar or subclavian vein. Gaining access is usually straight forward for an       experienced surgeon/implanter, but can be difficult in a minority of cases, or for implanters       with less experience. Complications include arterial puncture, pneumothorax and local       bleeding or hematoma. Traditionally cephalic vein cut-down is the first choice, but is only       available in 70% of cases, and for more complex procedures involving three electrodes, an       additional access is always required.        Ultrasound guidance is very common in other vascular access areas such as femoral artery,       radial artery and internal jugular vein, but has not gained widespread acceptance in       pacemaker procedures. High quality studies, demonstrating superiority or non-inferiority over       other access methods are lacking.        The present study will include all comer patients scheduled for transvenous pacemaker- or       implantable defibrillator surgery, where venous access is necessary for lead implantation. A       1:1 randomization will be performed to either standard access (at the discretion of the       surgeon) or ultrasound-guided using a wireless vascular transducer (Siemens Freestyle).       Implanters with various degrees of ultrasound experience and pacemaker surgery experience       will participate in the study. All implanters will receive a 2-hour training lecture and       additional hands-on training for the first 3 cases, by an ultrasound-experienced       anaesthesiologist.        Access time and success rate will be recorded, and all acute complications will be recorded.       Primary outcome is mean time to vascular access. In addition, success rate, complication rate       and total procedure time will be measured. Outcome data will be analyzed for the entire       cohort, but also stratified for implanter and excluding the first 10 cases for each       implanter, to compensate for various experience and individual learning curve.
The maximum duration of the study period for a participant was 18 weeks (approximatively 4.5       months) including up to 4 weeks screening, 12-week Treatment period and a post-treatment       follow-up of 2 weeks.
Recently, a shift could be observed from cardiac pacemakers being an absolute       contraindication to being a relative contraindication for MR imaging at 1.5 Tesla, depending       on a patient-per-patient risk-benefit-evaluation, which includes an urgent clinical need for       MR imaging (other imaging modalities non-conclusive) and co-morbidities (especially cardiac       co-morbidities). At the same time, MR imaging at 3 Tesla is evolving from a research       application only to an important imaging modality today.        Using the improved signal-to-noise-ratio, high field MR-Systems with a field strength of 3       Tesla offer a variety of diagnostic advantages to 1.5 Tesla systems. These advantages lead to       a higher sensitivity and specificity in diagnosing, foremost neurological, disorders.        In this study, we evaluate the safety of MR imaging of the brain in patients with cardiac       pacemakers at 3T.
nan
The primary objectives of this study are as follows:          -  Determine if the changes of temperature, pressure and humidity, are associated with an            increase of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias.          -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with an            increase of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias.        The secondary objectives of the study are:          -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with            significant changes in mean heart rate, rate variability rate and the percentage of            paced beats.          -  Determine whether changes in temperature, pressure or humidity, are associated with            significant changes in mean heart rate, heart rate variability and the percentage of            paced beats.          -  Determine if the changes of temperature, pressure and humidity, are associated with an            increase in mortality or hospitalization for myocardial infarction or congestive heart            failure.          -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with an            increase in mortality or hospitalization for myocardial infarction or congestive heart            failure.        Study Design This is a prospective, observational study, which compares the occurrence of       atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and changes in physiological parameters, with climatic       variables and air pollution.        The study will include 500 subjects and will consist of two periods:        Screening: we will collect baseline characteristics of subjects in the clinical examination.       The period recruitment will run for 12 months.        Follow-up: After written informed consent will be signed, subjects who meet the criteria for       inclusion will be enrolled in the study and followed up for a minimum period of 12 months.       The data obtained from the remote monitoring will be evaluated for the daily values provided       for the parameters considered in the study.        Periodical visits in pacemaker clinic will be scheduled at the discretion of the referring       cardiologist of the center. The arrhythmic events that will occur in this period, detected by       means of remote monitoring or through other clinical evaluations will be recorded. Atrial       arrythmias: atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, supraventricular tachycardia.        Ventricular arrhythmias: ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular       extrasystoles.        Physiological variables: average heart rate (24 hours and at rest), heart rate variability,       the percentage of paced beats.        In addition, any changes in drug therapies and all clinically relevant events, will be       recorded.        During the same period data from monitoring stations of ARPAV (Regional Agency for       Environmental Prevention and Protection of Veneto Region) will be collected.        Climatic variables: temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure. Parameters of air pollution:       PM10, PM2.5, O3, CO, SO2, NO2. For each patient, the data from the monitoring station ARPAV       of the urban area of residence of the subject will be considered. The mean exposure level       used in the analytical studies on the health effects is calculated on the average number of       units active in the area. This number is usually of 2-3 units in large centers, while it is       generally only 1 in small towns. The residents in centers without monitoring will be excluded       from the study. The mean value is the best approximation ... to be continued page 6.
nan
Atrioventricular (A-V) conduction disorders are common after Transcatheter Aortic Valve       Implantation (TAVI) and the average of a pacemaker implantation after TAVI is 15% to 17%.        The European Society of Cardiology recommends to implant a permanent pacemaker (PM) in case       of persistant high-grade A-V block (AVB) within 7 days of a TAVI procedure (class I       recommendation, level of evidence C).        Some conduction disturbances are transient and might not need a definitive indication for       pacemaker implantation. A recent study, based on dependency of patients to pacing, estimate       that in half the patients, conduction disturbances that led to the implantation of a       pacemaker after TAVI procedure would have disappear 30 days after the procedure.        Many studies tried to better define the indications of these devices. However, their       evaluation criteria do not allow to prove these pacemakers were useful, because these studies       are mainly based on the rate of implantation of pacemakers, or on the percentage of       ventricular pacing. These studies may overestimate the usefulness of the pacemaker because of       unnecessary ventricular pacing, or underestimate it in patients with high grade paroxysmal       AVB, that could have been responsible for syncope or death.        Today some pacemakers allow a better occurrence of spontaneous A-V conduction and monitor       precisely the atrioventricular conduction.        The AAI SafeR® mode from Sorin® allows the pacemaker to switch from a single to a dual       chamber mode in case of AVB; these switches are stored in the memories of PM as endocardial       electrogram (EGM) which can be validated afterwards. The use of this algorithm could allow an       accurate assessment of the persistence of high level conduction disturbances in patients       implanted with a pacemaker after a TAVI procedure. A study published in late 2014 using this       tool in monitoring post TAVI conduction disorders on a small number of patients, other       studies used the same tool in other cardiac pathologies.
The presence of a cardiac pacemaker (PM) is currently considered an absolute contraindication       to MR imaging, and most patients with PM are excluded from having MRI. In 2002 there were       approximately 2.4 million patients in the US with cardiac PM, and this number is growing by       80,000 annually. A previous study has shown that MRI is indicated in 17% of all patients with       pacemakers within 12 months of device placement 1, demonstrating the need for a practical and       safe approach for performing MRI on PM patients.        The aim of this study is to develop a strategy for safe performance of MR imaging at 1.5T,       which included exclusion of pacemaker dependent patients and those requiring imaging of the       thorax, restriction of specific absorption rate (SAR) values to minimize the risk of lead       heating, and PM reprogramming to avoid interference from time varying gradient fields. The       safety of this approach is then evaluated in a large group of PM patients including       assessment of potential myocardial thermal injury by measuring serum troponin I and pacing       capture thresholds, and performing a 3-month follow-up to evaluate long-term effects.
Patients are recruited from those routinely referred before surgery for adjustment of their       blood thinners. Suitable and consenting patients are randomized to one of the two regimens.       They will either stop warfarin for 5 days and replace it with injections of LMWH for 3 days       before pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) surgery. The other group       will have the dose of warfarin reduced to half for 3-6 days before surgery, depending on how       thin their blood is. For all patients the degree of blood thinning is checked the day before       surgery. If the blood is still to thin, the patient is instructed to take by mouth a dose of       vitamin K, provided by us, to reduce the effect of warfarin. After surgery the patients       restart warfarin at a double dose for 1 or 2 days to quickly reach the therapeutic effect       again. Staff from the Pacemaker or Defibrillator Clinic, unaware of the treatment allocation,       examines the patient for bleeding in the implantation pocket before they leave the hospital,       and at routine follow-up after 2-3 weeks and 90 days.
Permanent pacemaker implantation is a widely recognized clinical event associated with TAVI       becoming evident within a few days after the procedure.        While a number of registries have documented the rates of PPI with different valves, much       less evidence has been provided for          1. patient based characteristics (e.g. RBBB etc.) affecting the likelihood of PPI and for          2. procedural variables (e.g. implantation hieght, valve size etc.) that should be            considered to perform as safe and minimal invasive procedure as possible.        Prior Research To date there are 8 published reports on pacemaker rates and predictors       associated with the use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV.        These studies suggest that the need for pacemaker implantation in single centers ranges       between 14.4 and 20.4% based on patient numbers between 131 and 335 patients.        These analyses resulted in the identification of pre-existing conduction disturbance, aortic       valve calcification, heavily calcified LVOT, RBBB, persistent complete heart blocks,       prolonged QRS duration or short membranous septum as patient related factors associated with       PPI during Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV TAVI. Similarly, procedural variables such as implantation       height /oversizing as procedure related variables are associated with PPI after TAVI.        The literature regarding procedure related variables associated with permanent pacemaker       implantation in patients receiving an Edwards SAPIEN 3 valve shows multivariable analyses       with slightly different views to the requested procedural variables.        Tarantini et al. suggest a higher valve implantation (ventricular ratio >60/40 at qualitative       assessment or depth <8mm at qualitative assessment). A similar outcome was reported by De       Torres-Alba et al.. Due to the longer stent of the SAPIEN 3 they suggest an even higher       implantation, intending a shorter extension of the stent into the LVOT by increasing the       percentage of the stent in the aorta to >70%. Schwerg et al. compare the PPI rate in "low       implantation" with "high implantation" independently from the patients pre-existing       conduction disturbances, and suggest to minimize the risk of PPI by choosing a higher       implantation technique with the central marker 2 mm or more over the annular plane.        Furthermore Mauri et al. encourage to choose a implantation height of <25.5% (Implantation       height was expressed as the percentage of the ventricular part of the stent frame in relation       to the overall stent frame length).        Another procedural factor is found to be aortic annulus oversizing ratios which are known to       prevent paravalvular leakage. Leber et al. show the rate of post-procedural permanent       pacemakers tended to be lower in patients with <15% oversizing compared to those with >25%       oversizing for Edwards Sapien XT. Using SAPIEN 3 valves Husser et al. show a higher PPI rate       in patients with out of range oversizing.        Gonska et al. conclude that neither implantation height nor oversizing has an effect on PPI       rate.        On the other hand the need for pre-dilatation by balloon valvuloplasty and post-implant       dilatation have not been identified as potential contributing factors for PPI as it is       believed the impact of the dilatation on the conduction tissue is transient and short lived.        Nevertheless, pre- and post-dilatation should be further considered and analysed.        Hypothetically, also the following procedural parameters, which have not been investigated in       detail so far, could be risks for PPIs: Stiff guidewire use or a no touch policy and should       be considered in this research.        Limitations of prior research Current evidence though is limited by patient numbers versus       event rates (with a max. of 62 PPI considered in any of the available datasets) resulting in       a limited power in multivariable analyses, the single center design of these ventures, the       lack of a consistent definition of variables potentially associated with PPI and the       unexplained differences in the number and type of variables identified.        Aims This registry aims to assess procedural variables and to verify risk factors in a       prospective multicenter registry.        To identify predictors of PPI patients with a high risk for PPI will be preferably included       to increase the power compared to pre-existing database analyses from single centres. The       target is to identify general procedural predictors and to verify risk factors of PPI post       TAVI with the Edwards SAPIEN 3 valve which when identified and avoided will reduce the need       of PPI in the future.
In asystolic neurally-mediated syncope (NMS) documented by Implantable Loop recorder (ILR),       ISSUE-2, an observational trial, showed that pacemaker was effective in reducing the 1-year       first syncope recurrence rate from 33% rate before implant (ILR phase 1) to 5% rate after       implant (phase 2). Moreover, the control non-asystolic group still continued to have a 41%       recurrence rate after the first recurrence of syncope, thus supporting the conclusion that       the reduction with pacemaker was due to the beneficial effect of pacemaker itself and not to       other factors. However a formal controlled trial is needed to confirm these findings.
nan
This study requires a total of two study days as well as two follow up visits. During study       day one, baseline blood will be drawn, a baseline electrocardiogram will be performed, and       continuous QT Interval monitoring will be performed. The pacemaker rate will be increased to       90bpm at different time intervals and additional blood will be drawn to measure the effects       of these rates changes.        On study day two, baseline blood will be drawn, a urine specimen will be obtained, an       electrocardiogram will be performed, and continuous QT Interval monitoring will be performed.       Following the acquisition of this information, the pacemaker rate will be decreased to 80bpm.       We will obtain blood specimens, a urine specimen and an electrocardiogram at 30 minutes post       rate change and again at 60 minutes post rate change.        Two days following the rate decrease to 80bpm, the patient will return to clinic to have       their rate decreased to 70bpm. In two more days, the patient will return for a final rate       change to 60bpm.
Far-field R-wave sensing (FFS) in the atrial channel of dual chamber pacemakers is a relevant       source for inappropriate mode switch from the DDD mode to the DDI or VDI mode. Inappropriate       loss of atrioventricular synchrony due to false positive mode switch is hemodynamically       disadvantageous, may induce atrial tachyarrhythmias, can lead to pacemaker syndrome, and       impairs the reliability of pacemaker Holter data. The aim of the study is to determine       whether individual adjustment of the postventricular atrial blanking period (PVAB) based on       an additional test is effective in avoiding inappropriate mode switch due to FFS when       compared to standard programming of the PVAB
Study Design          -  Open-label, prospective, non-randomized, multicenter, international          -  about 13 study sites        Study Endpoints        The following endpoints are defined and will be assessed with descriptive analysis:          1. AV Opt feature:             The feature's AV delay recommendation was               1. used as basis for the device programming or is at least considered to be clinically                 acceptable or               2. other AV delay values were chosen by the investigator and the recommendation was                 rated as not clinically acceptable.          2. LV VectorOpt usability using an overall score (categories: excellent, good, average,            fair, poor).          3. (S)ADEs and calculation of the SADE free rate until the 6-month follow-up
Patients with PMs and ICDs have traditionally been considered at risk for electrical magnetic       interference (EMI) from electrocautery. EMI can cause oversensing, pacing inhibition, or       inappropriate ICD therapies. In July 2011, the Heart Rhythm Society /American Society of       Anesthesiologists (HRS/ASA) published an Expert Consensus Statement on the perioperative       management of PM and ICDs.        The purpose of this registry is to collect data on patients with PMs and ICDs undergoing       procedures requiring electrocautery using a standardized device management protocol (ICD-ON       Protocol). Decisions about management of patients with these devices will be made based on       surgical location, programmed magnet response and pacemaker dependence.        This registry will document incidence of EMI, changes in programmed parameters or device       related events associated with the procedures. Observational data will be collected on       participants including: medical history, device parameters, surgical/cautery data, and       postoperative device follow-up. For procedures not requiring reprogramming, postoperative PM       and ICD interrogation will be either routine in office follow-up or remote monitoring, as per       the subject's routine.
Inclusions will take place from August 2014 to February 2015. We plan to include 165       consecutive patients with TAVI through a femoral approach.        At the inclusion, clinical baseline and electrocardiographic data will be collected. During       the procedure, baseline ECG data as well as conduction disorders will be recorded. An EP       study will be performed (measure of AH and HV intervals) before and after TAVI. Aortic       surface area, transvalvular mean gradient, presence of periprothetic leak and LV ejection       fraction will be determined by echocardiography within the first 24 hours.        After the procedure, a 24-hour ECG monitoring will be done in ICU. A pacemaker will be       implanted in case of persistent severe conduction disorders at 24 hours post-TAVI . All       patients will be implanted with SORIN Group KORA DR devices to benefit from the AAI-SafeR       mode and the AVB episodes automated analysis. All implanted pacemakers will be settled with       identical parameters to allow appropriate patient data analysis (AAI-SafeR for sinus rhythm       patients and VVIR in chronic atrial fibrillation patients).        In patients with 24-hour persistence of bundle branch block onset after TAVI, a repeated EPS       with HV recording will be performed. If HV interval is > 70ms, a pacemaker will be implanted       and the patient will be added to the pacemaker-implanted patients. In the absence of       persistent conduction disorder 24h after the procedure, no specific supervision will be done.        All patients will have a 2-month follow up. At this time, clinical, ECG and echocardiographic       data will be collected. Additional 24-hour Holter ECG monitoring will be performed in       non-implanted patients and additional device control will be performed in implanted patients.       Pacemaker implantation will be confirmed if there is more than 1% of ventricular pacing or at       least one DDD mode switch.        In non-implanted patients, the non-indication for pacing was confirmed in the absence of       clinical event and 24-hour Holter ECG recording abnormality.        The secondary endpoint of the study is to define a posteriori risk factors for pacemaker       implantation after TAVI included in the liste hereafter:          -  Clinical data: age, drug-induced bradycardia, hypertension, ischemic cardiomyopathy,            creatinin clearance, troponin value.          -  Electrocardiographic data: QRS duration, PR interval, preexisting bundle branch block or            AV block, QRS axis, sinus rhythm          -  Echocardiographic data : aortic surface area, LV ejection fraction, aortic            annulus/prothesis ratio, aortic annulus/balloon diameter ratio          -  Electrophysiological data : HV interval before and after TAVI
Specific objectives :          -  To determine the incidence of complications occurring in the first year after            implantation of a pacemaker.          -  To determine the quality of life at one year after pacemaker implantation in comparison            with the quality of life before implantation.          -  To determine which baseline (patient and pacemaker related) characteristics measured            during implantation are prognostic predictors for the occurrence of complications and            quality of life after one year.          -  To determine which characteristics measured during follow-up visits truly have added            predictive value, and to what extent.          -  To determine to what extent responsibilities for pacemaker check-up can be safely            delegated to non-cardiologists (e.g. pacemaker technicians or manufacturers' delegates).
nan
Implantable pacemaker devices are available with specific atrial pacing algorithms designed       to prevent atrial arrhythmias (Preventive stimulation). These algorithms work by increasing       the atrial pacing rate to achieve continuous overdrive pacing or by responding to triggers       such as premature atrial complexes.        Different investigation's showed that preventive atrial pacing was associated with a 30 to 50       % reduction in the risk of recurrence of AF, compared with no pacing. But a complete       recurrence-free long-term effect is not reached.        A hybrid therapy consisting of a combination of preventive atrial stimulation and       pharmacologic therapy maybe useful in restoring sinus rhythm. The HOPE-(Heart Outcomes       Prevention Evaluation)-Trial showed a overwhelming evidence that, in a broad range of       high-risk patients, an ACE-Inhibitor (Ramipril) prevents cardiovascular death, stroke, and       heart failure. AF leads to an activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), which seems       to play an important role in atrial remodeling. Both experimental and clinical data have       confirmed the pro-arrhythmic role of the RAS and demonstrated an anti-arrhythmic effect of       ACE- and AT-I-Inhibitors. Madrid et al. showed that a combination of the AT-I-Inhibitor       irbesartan plus amiodarone decreased the rate of AF recurrences, with a dose-dependent       effect, in AF patients. ACE- and AT-I-Inhibitors represent new and efficient therapeutical       options to contrast the nearly inevitable progression of this arrhythmia towards its       permanent form. Beta-Blockers are a common pharmacologic therapy in AF patients.        The aim of the BACE-PACE-Trial is to investigate preventive pacing stimulation (PS) vs.       standard DDD[R]-60-Stimulation (ST) in combination with antiarrhythmic Beta-Blocker or       ACE-inhibitor therapy on the recurrence of atrial fibrillation in patients with dual-chamber       pacemakers        The Responder (patients without AF recurrence, respectively with a significant reduction in       AF burden) are compared to the standard stimulation. A clinically relevance meant a reduction       in AF burden of more than 25 % (experts consensus).
BACKGROUND Pectoral nerve blocks (PECs) can reduce intraprocedural anesthetic requirements       and postoperative pain. Little is known about the utility of PECs in reducing pain and       narcotic use after pacemaker (PM)placement in children. OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study       was to determine whether PECs can decrease postoperative pain and opioid use after PM       placement in children.        METHODS A single-center controlled trial of pediatric patients undergoing transvenous PM       placement between 2020 and 2021 will be performed. Demographics, procedural variables,       postoperative pain, and postoperative opioid usage will be compared between patients who       undergone PECs and those who undergone conventional anesthetic (Control).
The purpose of this study is to assess the performance of Sleep Disordered Breathing       Monitoring function (SDB) in pacemakers by comparing device diagnostic data to the results of       in-lab PolySomnoGraphy (PSG) recording during the same night
nan
The aim of the study is the comparison of two different leads in their capabilities to detect       episodes and duration of paroxysmal AF and AT and the rejection of far field sensing of the       far field R-wave (FFRW). The study aims to evaluate the accuracy of the detection of atrial       tachyarrhythmias (ATAs). An improved detection can potentially increase the accuracy of       clinical treatment decisions, based on device derived data.
nan
nan
nan
Many patients with heart failure suffer from chronotropic incompetence, an inability to raise       their heart rate in response to metabolic demand. Previous studies have shown that brief       increases in pacing rates in patients with biventricular pacemakers can improve cardiac       contractility. We hypothesize that the benefits of an increased biventricular pacing rate       could be sustained and would improve cardiovascular and neurohormonal parameters in patients       suffering from volume overload. We intend to prospectively evaluate this hypothesis in a       single blind randomized cross-over design trial.        We will screen 40 patients who have previously implanted biventricular pacemakers (or a       narrow QRS) and an elevated B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) level. Following enrollment,       patients will be randomly assigned to have their atrial pacing rate increased to 85 beats per       minute or to be unchanged during the first of 2 visits. Patients will be unaware of their       treatment assignment. They will be observed for six hours in a monitored setting. The primary       outcome will be cardiac output, as measured noninvasively by NICOM (Cheetah Medical Inc.,       Israel) system before and after the observation period. Secondary outcomes will include       changes in neurohormonal measures and thoracic impedance. If this proof-of-concept study       demonstrates a positive effect, future research would evaluate the ability of increased       pacing rates to prevent or abort decompensation of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF).
Patients with pacemakers have a potential risk of EMI from sources including electrosurgery       which can cause oversensing, pacing inhibition and device reset. There is limited data on       surgical EMI in Medtronic Micra leadless pacemakers. The goal of this study is to evaluate       for surgical EMI in subjects with leadless pacemakers.        Subjects with Micra leadless pacemakers requiring surgery will have procedure records       reviewed for type of procedure and use of electrosurgery. Next postoperative device       interrogation will be reviewed for evidence of EMI. EMI will be evaluated by review of       sensing integrity counter, heart rate histograms and device reset.
nan
nan
Within the last decade cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been proven to be an       effective therapy to reduce morbidity and mortality in chronic heart failure patients with       wide QRS complex, in particular complete left bundle branch block. New indications have       recently been established, including patients with mild symptoms and patients in need of       conventional pacing such as high-grade atrioventricular block.        More than half - up to 80% - of patients with heart failure suffer from concomitant sleep       apnea (SA), which further worsens symptoms and prognosis. Cardiac resynchronization therapy       may ameliorate sleep apnea, but only the central form of sleep apnea (CSA). However, only       very small uncontrolled studies with mainly less than 20 patients have been reported so far       concerning the interactions between CRT and sleep apnea, and no data are available in       patients with conventional right ventricular pacing undergoing upgrading to CRT.        Therefore, we want to perform a study called UPGRADE which is characterized          -  being the first randomized study comparing the effects of new-onset cardiac            resynchronization therapy on moderate and severe central sleep apnea, defined by an AHI            ≥ 15/h as assessed by polysomnography in patients with conventional right ventricular            pacing which is known to decrease cardiac function, induce heart failure and atrial            fibrillation          -  using a new technology called AP Scan® which enables continuous and reliable monitoring            of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB); this technology is further validated with            polysomnography, the gold standard in the diagnosis and follow-up in patients with sleep            apnea        Unfortunately, one third of patients still do not benefit from CRT (so-called       non-responders). On the other hand, up to 20% of patients greatly benefit and completely       recover in terms of normalization of left ventricular ejection fraction and/or functional       capacity (so-called super-responders). Research is urgently needed to decrease the number of       non-responders and increase the number of super-responders.        Patient selection is still based on QRS duration and its morphology. Echocardiography and       other imaging techniques for mechanical dyssynchrony assessment have failed to be a useful       predictor for adequate patient selection. Therefore, we further want to test whether CRT       itself does not only improve concomitant sleep apnea, but also if preexisting sleep apnea       predicts the response to CRT in patients with previously conventional right-ventricular       pacing undergoing an upgrade to CRT by additional implantation of a left ventricular lead.
The purpose of this study is to determine the predictors for placement of permanent       pacemakers soon after cardiac surgery. We will measure the following to see what influence,       if any, they have on predicting the need for permanent pacemaker implantation. Through       investigation into the co-morbidities, diagnoses, or histories associated with an endpoint       permanent pacemaker placement, it is possible that we will garner a better idea of who will       require PPP.
This is a randomized controlled study evaluating the effectiveness of PEC I, PEC II,       Transversus Thoracic plane blocks as the primary anesthetic in participants undergoing       subcutaneous implantable defibrillator. There will be two groups; the nerve block group vs.       general anesthesia group. The participants in the nerve block group will receive an       ultrasound-guided nerve block in the electrophysiology suite prior to the start of the       procedure. Participants will get a PEC I block with 10ml of 0.375% ropivacaine, PEC II block       with 15ml of 0.375% ropivacaine, 15ml of 0.375% ropivacaine for TTP. PEC I block entails       injecting local anesthesia between the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor muscles to       anesthetize the medial and lateral pectoral nerves. PEC II block entails injecting local       anesthetic between the pectoralis minor and serratus anterior muscles to block the upper       intercostal nerves. For Tranversus Thoracic Plane block, local anesthetic will be injected       between the internal intercostal muscle and the Transversus Thoracic muscle. The participants       in the nerve block group will get mild sedation during the nerve blocks (midazolam 1-2mg IV       and fentanyl 50-100mcg IV). After block placement, patient will be given a 0.3mcg/kg bolus of       dexmedetomidine, then an infusion of dexmedetomidine 0.4mcg/kg/hr- 0.7mcg/kg/hr r +/-       propofol 25mcg/kg/min-100mcg/kg/min for sedation. The general anesthesia group of       participants will get the current standard of care with an endotracheal tube with a       combination of IV induction medications and volatile anesthetic. Research assistant will hand       an enclosed envelope to the anesthesiologists with the name of the group consented patient       will be in.        Intraoperatively, the anesthesiologist will note if supplemental opioids and local anesthetic       was required. Postoperatively, the PACU nurse will be asked to document pain scores according       to the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and total dose of opioids given. The distribution of the       sensory block and motor weakness will be documented in the anesthesiologist's PACU discharge       note. For postoperative data collection, opioid consumption totals and the pain scores at 30       minutes after arrival in PACU and at discharge.
The aim of this protocol is to study the appearance of the high grade AV conductive disorders       at 12 months by monitoring for patients with a de novo LBBB after TAVI from an adapated       algorithm to the risk and based on an early electrophysiological evaluation.        The recruitment of patients takes place in each cardiology department. The project is       submitted to the Ethics Committee .        The patients are informed about this study by the investigator. After a reflection period and       an answer to the possible questions, the patient is included. The informed consent is signed.        Every patient included with a de novo LBBB, persistent that is observed beyond 24 hours after       the TAVI procedure, will benefit from an endocavitary electrophysiological exploration .       According to the meditative delay of conduction, a pacemaker will be implanted in case of       delay lengthened HV (> 70 ms) or of infrahissian block, in the opposite case the implantation       of an holter with remote monitoring will be made.
Within the scope of a usual follow-up schedule the influence of the mode of rate-adaptation       on cognitive performance of pacemaker patients will be analysed. Accelerometer sensor will be       compared with Closed Loop Stimulation over 2 years. The cognitive performance will be       measured by means of a standardized psychometric test. The occurrence of atrial fibrillation       and serious adverse events, patient self-assessment and quality of life will be evaluated. An       analysis of the telemonitored (Home Monitoring) data will be performed in order to identify       predictors of changes or differences in cognitive performance.
Design: This will be a randomised, double-blind 'placebo' controlled trial of optimised       programming versus standard rate-response settings, aiming to determine whether the short       term improvements translate into longer term benefits.        Study participants: 60 adult patients (>18years) aiming for 50 matched datasets (25 in each       arm).        Study Procedures: Patients attending the heart failure clinic, the pacemaker clinic or       previous participants in the acute cross-over study (pilot data 2) will be approached with a       standard letter and information sheet and then a telephone call to make sure any remaining       questions are answered.        Patients agreeing to participate will attend the clinical research facility (CRF) and will be       asked to sign a consent form. Each patient will have a standard device check, check of their       demographic data, and co-morbidities. The investigators will record a resting cardiac       ultrasound, and, in those who did not participate in the pilot study (or did so more than six       months previously), we will measure the force frequency relationship (FFR) as described to       determine critical heart rate (HR), and the optimal range of HR rise. All images will be       stored for offline analysis. Participants will then be asked to do a symptom-limited walk       test on the treadmill (until they cannot do any more). At this first visit, participants will       also complete a quality of life questionnaire. All of these activities will take place in the       Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General Infirmary.        Randomisation: Each patient will then be randomised to either optimised programming (n=30) as       predicted by their force-frequency curve or standard settings (n=30). In the optimised group,       programming will keep heart rates below the critical HR. Randomisation will be by a random       number generator and programming will be undertaken by one of my colleagues to maintain       blinding.        Follow-up: Each patient will be called at one month to check that they are tolerating any       changes and will then be invited back at 6 months for a repeat resting echocardiogram,       treadmill walk test and quality of life assessment.        Data: All data will be stored on a bespoke Excel spreadsheet on an LTHT server in a       password-protected folder.        Primary Endpoint: The effects of heart rate programming that optimises heart rate for       contractility on change in treadmill-based walk distance over six months in patients with       heart failure and a pacemaker.        Secondary endpoints: 1) the safety of pacemaker programming optimised for heart rate in       patients with heart failure and a pacemaker, 2) the effect of this programming on change of       quality of life at 6 months 3) the effect of this programming on change in cardiac function       at 6 months.
Patients with permanent pacemakers have a high risk of atrial fibrillation (AF), particularly       those with hypertension, sinus node dysfunction, and those with short episodes of atrial       arrhythmias, known as atrial high-rate episodes (AHRE). AHRE are felt to be a precursor to       AF, and may be both the result and a cause of changs in the atrial electrophysiology, and       structure (known as cardiac remodeling)that are associated with the development of AF.        Evaluating this process in human AF has been limited by the cumbersome nature of performing       serial, invasive electrophysiologic studies. However, modern pacemakers now permit rapid,       non-invasive electrophysiologic testing and can also accurately document AHRE, which allows       the convenient study of therapy aimed at preventing the progression from AHRE to overt AF. In       addition, this group of patients also affords the ability to evaluate the recurrence of AHRE       on the progression of structural and electrical remodeling.        Comparison: Irbesartan compared to placebo.
The study will compare the strategies of percutaneous extraction to surgical extraction.          -  Mechanical percutaneous extraction is the conventional technique using locking stylets            and telescoping sheaths around the pacing leads to separate them from the surrounding            scar tissue.          -  Laser-assisted lead extraction is most often used in complex procedures and dissolves            rather than tear the scar tissue.          -  Sternotomy is the surgical procedure used when leads cannot be removed by percutaneous            extraction. It is rarely employed.
nan
More than 235.500 cardiac pacemakers and cardioverter-defibrillators are implanted in the US       every year, with an estimated 25,000 new implants in Brazil. Despite its proven clinical       effectiveness and efficacy for a number of clinical conditions such as arrhythmias, the       number of adverse events in the post-implant period remains substantial. Among these       complications, venous obstructions occurs anywhere between 14% and 64% of all patients,       causing devastating consequences such as upper extremity deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary       embolism, ultimately leading to either significant impairment or death. Although       retrospective studies have demonstrated the high incidence of these complications, as a       consequence of a paucity of reliable registries we know next to nothing regarding how these       venous lesions may influence the clinical outcome and mortality of patients, whether       laboratorial markers may contribute to the early diagnosis of venous thrombosis and its       complications, and about properties of diagnostic imaging for the identification of       thromboembolic complications after permanent transvenous leads implantation.        The objective of this study is therefore to propose a significant improvement in an existing       clinical database located within the Heart Institute (INCOR) at the University of Sao Paulo       to enable the provision of answers to a clinical, biomarker, and imaging-related research       questions. Specifically, our aims are to:          -  Aim 1 - Registry infrastructure: In collaboration with professors from Duke University,            we will create a series of improvements to the current database to enable it to serve as            a platform not only for the current studies but also for future longitudinal, randomized            studies. These include the standardization of variables in accordance with international            guidelines, increase in patient retention and the ability to have additional data points            in-between clinical appointments, improvement in the determination of cause of            mortality, data quality monitoring, the creation of an item bank to measure aspects of            quality of life that are specific for this population, as well as the integration of            images and biomarkers to the clinical database.          -  Aim 2 - Diagnostic imaging methods: To identify the incidence of upper extremity deep            venous thrombosis after cardiac devices implantations or reoperation procedures, as            well, the incidence of symptomatic and asymptomatic pulmonary thromboembolism.          -  Aim 3 - Prognostic clinical factors: To study the impact of thromboembolic complications            in the clinical prognostic and mortality of patients;          -  Aim 4 - Prognostic biomarkers: To determine the association between the biomarkers            related with alterations in the hemostasis system and the occurrence of venous            thrombosis (biomarkers: Fibrinogen, D Dimer, Antithrombin, Prothrombin fragment 1 +2,            thromboxane B, Platelets, Plasminogen)        At the end of this study we will have a registry with one of the largest number of patients       with this condition around the world, fully equipped for future randomized controlled trials.       We will also have a much better understanding regarding clinical, imaging, and biomarkers for       this condition.
Registry Purpose        This registry is a prospective single institution study of MRI examinations in patients with       pacemakers or ICD's who will undergo an MRI that is ordered for routine clinical care. The       purpose of the registry is to accumulate pre-and post-scan device interrogation data for the       purpose of determining the risk of MRI for patients with implantable devices.        Registry data will add to existing data on the safety of MRI scans for patients with       pacemakers and ICDs. This safety data may impact physicians' diagnostic choices for this       patient population. Patients with conditions for whom MRI is the best diagnostic modality but       who have not been able to undergo MRI scanning may be able to do so through registry       participation. The diagnostic information obtained from the scan may assist physicians'       treatment decisions and may ultimately affect patient outcomes.        In addition, to our knowledge, previous registries of MRI's in non-conditional cardiac       devices have been limited to academic centers. This registry would be among the first to       demonstrate the feasibility and safety of this approach in a community hospital setting.        Study Methods        The registry research involves acquiring and analyzing the data of device function and       adverse events related to the MRI scan.        The need for MRI will be determined on a case-by-case basis based on the patient's medical       history and treatment plan/goals, independent of the registry and research purposes. Only       patients with implanted devices with orders for clinically indicated MRI scans will be       considered for registry inclusion. Clinical review will be performed and the patient       considered after determination that no other imaging modality would be appropriate.        The appropriateness of the MRI study must be discussed, in person or via phone call, between       a cardiac radiologist, as determined by Paul Leslie, M.D., and the requesting physician. The       discussion should include consideration of alternative imaging modalities and diagnostic       quality of MRI imaging of requested body region given implanted device(s). The requesting       physician is then responsible for discussing with the patient and/or their medical proxy the       reasoning for the determination, based on the final decision made by a radiologist.        All patients will be screened prior to enrollment. Any patient with any commercially       available pacemaker or ICD system implanted after 2001 who meet all of the inclusion criteria       and none of the exclusion criteria, and who require a medically-indicated MRI as described       above will be eligible to enroll in the study. The presence/absence of       capped/abandoned/epicardial leads/subcutaneous coil will be confirmed and documented by       review of the most recent chest x-ray obtained. The x-ray must post-date the most recent       device/lead intervention, as determined by a review of the patient's medical record.        If an MRI procedure is deemed absolutely necessary, the MRI will be performed at the       Lancaster General Hospital Lime Street MRI facility. MRI scan sequences, field intensity and       field(s) of exposure will be selected to minimize risk to the patient while gaining needed       diagnostic information for diagnosis or therapy management.        The MRI will be performed with a 1.5 T scanner utilizing institutional protocols and the       following settings:          -  Normal operating mode          -  SAR ≤ 2.0 W/kg per patient.        Prior to the procedure, a pacemaker technologist or manufacturer clinical representative will       interrogate the pacemaker or ICD and record the following parameters:          -  Patient's underlying rhythm          -  Atrial and right/left ventricular pacing thresholds          -  P-wave and R-wave amplitude          -  Lead impedance (atrial, ventricular, high voltage)          -  Battery voltage          -  Arrhythmia history          -  Tachyarrhythmia therapy        The following pacemaker/ICD parameters will be deactivated for the duration of the MRI:          -  Magnet response (ICD)          -  Rate response          -  PVC response          -  Noise reversion response          -  Ventricular sense response          -  Mode switching          -  Tachycardia detection/therapies (ICD)          -  EGM triggers        Patients who are not pacemaker dependent will have their pacemaker/ICD programmed to       AAI/VVI/DDI at 40 beats per minute for the duration of the MRI. Patients who are pacemaker       dependent (pacing at programmed lower rate during the pre-scan interrogation) will have their       pacemaker/ICD programmed to AOO/VOO/DOO at the programmed lower rate for the duration of the       MRI. Emergency equipment, including a MRI compatible defibrillator and transcutaneous       pacemaker, will be available throughout the procedure in the event of an adverse clinical       event. In addition to radiology staff, a pacemaker technologist or manufacturer clinical       representative and an EP tech/RN with current ACLS will be present for the duration of the       procedure. An EP physician/advanced practice provider (APP) must be immediately available       (i.e., in the hospital) to provide medical intervention, such as placement of a temporary       external pacemaker if required. In the event that a code is called by the MRI staff, hospital       protocol indicates that ER staff will respond to the code.        Radiology staff and the electrophysiology (EP) technologist or nurse with current ACLS       certification will monitor the following patient parameters at least every 5 minutes       throughout the MRI scan:          -  Heart rate          -  Heart rhythm          -  Non-invasive blood pressure          -  Oxygen saturation          -  Symptoms        If any of the following adverse symptoms/events occur during the scan, the test will be       immediately terminated:          -  Burning/pulling sensation in device pocket/chest during MRI          -  Potentially lethal/previously non-diagnosed arrhythmias during MRI          -  Spontaneous and unanticipated pacing rate change          -  SOB          -  Chest pain          -  Feeling of heat/pulling in the chest or device pocket        The patient will be removed from the scanner to the holding area and the device interrogated       and reprogrammed to original parameters or as indicated by interrogation. If needed,       emergency treatment will be provided as per ACLS protocols or at the discretion of the       monitoring physician. The following parameters will be compared to the pre-MRI results:          -  Patient's underlying rhythm          -  Atrial and right/left ventricular pacing thresholds          -  P-wave and R-wave amplitude          -  Lead impedance (atrial, ventricular, high voltage)          -  Battery voltage        All device-related adverse events/symptoms will be documented on the data collection form and       reported to the IRB. The patient will remain in the MRI suite holding area until medically       stable. The need for further treatment will be at the discretion of the monitoring physician.        The EP physician/APP will review and compare the pre/post MRI device data prior to the       patient's discharge from the MRI suite. Following testing, the pacemaker or ICD will be       reprogrammed to the pre-procedure parameters. The need for device reprogramming related to       the MRI scan will be based on the clinical judgment of the attending electrophysiologist.        Follow-up        Patients who do not experience any device related adverse events during the MRI will return       for one follow-up visit 1-6 weeks after the MRI. The follow-up visit will include       pacemaker/ICD interrogation and testing to confirm appropriate function. At a minimum, device       interrogation/testing will include:          -  Atrial and right/left ventricular pacing thresholds          -  P-wave and R-wave amplitude          -  Lead impedance (atrial, ventricular, high voltage)          -  Battery voltage        Patients who experience one or more device-related adverse events during the MRI will return       1-7 days post-MRI for follow-up pacemaker/ICD testing to confirm appropriate function. At a       minimum, device interrogation/testing will include:          -  Atrial and right/left ventricular pacing thresholds          -  P-wave and R-wave amplitude          -  Lead impedance (atrial, ventricular, high voltage)          -  Battery voltage        The need for further follow-up will be determined by the physician based on testing results       and clinical need.        The results of the follow-up device interrogation, including whether MRI-related adverse       events have resolved, will be documented and kept in the device chart and recorded in the       Registry database.        If the insurance provider does not cover the MRI and device checks, those costs may be the       full responsibility of the patient. The patient will be informed of the status of the       pre-authorization before scheduling the MRI.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) with a biventricular pacemaker has been       well-validated to improve symptoms and reduce death in select patients with heart failure. In       healthy adults, the two chambers of the heart which pump blood throughout the body (the left       and right ventricles) activate and contract together in synchronous fashion. In certain       patients with heart failure (specifically, those with a reduced ejection fraction), the left       and right ventricles no longer activate and contract synchronously. CRT restores ventricular       synchrony by simultaneously activating the left (LV) and right ventricles (RV) with       electrical pacing.        Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are used to provide mechanical support to patients       with more advanced, often end-stage, heart failure. In these cases, the heart's ventricles       function so poorly that even despite all standard therapies (including CRT), patients       experience symptoms of congestive heart failure even at rest. The LVAD suctions blood from       the ventricle and propels it into the aorta, offloading the ventricle and assisting its       function.        Due to the similar reasons for using each therapy, a number of patients already possess a       biventricular pacemaker at the time of LVAD implantation. Individually, each intervention is       known to improve both patient survival and functional status. However, there is sparse data       to evaluate the effectiveness of using both devices simultaneously. Specifically, no data is       yet available assessing the effect of CRT on the functional parameters of the LVAD.        This protocol will operate the biventricular pacemaker at various settings and assess for       changes in the LVAD's function in response to those settings. "Fine-tuning" and identifying       the ideal the pacemaker settings will maximize clinical benefit in patients with both       devices.
The OMNI results demonstrate the importance of Medtronic's ongoing efforts to increase       adoption of evidence based shock-reduction programming strategies. Longer VF NID (number of       intervals to detect in the VF zone) should be utilized with the Anti-tachycardia Pacing (ATP)       During Charging Feature. ATP during Charging allows physicians to treat with ATP without       delay to shock. Therefore, VF NID may be extended to allow episodes the chance to       self-terminate immediately to shock by use of the ATP during the charging feature.
nan
The aim of the study is to find out the effect of a direct renin inhibitor, aliskiren, in       reduction of AF with patients who have a pacemaker due to sinus node disease and paroxysmal       atrial fibrillation.        Hypothesis is that there is a possibility to reduce atrial remodeling due to AF and also to       enhance atrial reverse remodeling with aliskiren. The effect of aliskiren to total AF burden       will be evaluated from the pacemaker's memory storage.        The main purpose of the study is to find new and safe drug treatments targeting to reduce AF       recurrences and related complications in pacemaker patients. Also the aim is to evaluate the       feasibility of a modern and highly sophisticated pacemaker system in the evaluation of drug       treatment with AF reduction.
Patients with obstructive HCM and drug-refractory symptoms are referred for left ventricular       myotomy and myectomy (LVMM) or mitral valve replacement. As alternative therapies to cardiac       surgery, we propose to compare the abilities of dual chamber (DDD) pacing and percutaneous       transluminal septal ablation (PTSA) to reduce left ventricular (LV) outflow pressure       gradients and to improve exercise performance in patients with obstructive HCM and severe       symptoms who have failed to benefit from pharmacotherapy.
Far-field R-wave sensing (FFS) in the atrial channel of dual chamber pacemakers is a relevant       source for inappropriate Mode Switch from the DDD mode to the DDI or VDI mode. Inappropriate       loss of atrioventricular synchrony due to false positive Mode Switch is hemodynamically       disadvantageous, may induce atrial tachyarrhythmias, can lead to pacemaker syndrome, and       impairs the reliability of pacemaker Holter data. The aim of the study is to determine       whether the use of a new atrial screw in lead with ultra short tip-ring distance of 1.1 mm       (Study Group) eliminates the need for individual adjustment of the postventricular atrial       blanking period (PVAB) based on an additional test in the Control Group with standard leads.
This study is a double-blind, randomized, two-arm (with crossover to other arm) trial that       will investigate the benefit of rate responsive pacing with either MV or XL in pacemaker       patients that have chronotropic incompetence (CI). Blinding will occur for both the patient       and the research personnel who are collecting primary endpoint data. The study will enroll       patients that have an implanted dual/single chamber pacemaker, which has both the minute       ventilation (MV) and accelerometer (XL) rate-adaptive sensors.        The initial study visit called as baseline visit for newly implanted patients (at 2 weeks       from implant) and for previously implanted patients (at the time of enrolling in the study).        Patients will complete a 6-min walk test at the baseline study visit to screen for CI based       on the intrinsic heart rate achieved during the walk while pacemaker set to DDD/VVI with both       sensors set to passive. All patients that are enrolled in the study will get treadmill       exercise stress test by chronotropic assessment exercise protocol (CAEP) to confirm CI.       Patients will be determined to have CI by completing a maximal effort exercise treadmill       stress test with peak perceived exertion by Borg scale of >16 (18) with the pacemaker       programmed to DDD/VVI with both device sensors set to passive. Patients that do not meet the       criteria of CI after CAEP treadmill test will not continue in the trial.        Patients that have CI will then be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to programming the rate-adaptive       sensor to either MV or XL. The MV or XL rate-adaptive sensor will be optimized for each       patient using stress test derived age predicted maximum heart rate by adjusting response       factor to achieve MCR slope of 1.        At the 4-week visit, patients that have CI will complete a second CAEP treadmill test in       their randomized setting with pacer set as DDDR/VVIR. They will also complete 6-minute walk       test and pacemaker interrogation. They will be crossed over to the other sensor group at this       time by changing the sensor setting.        At 8 week visit, patients will have another CAEP treadmill test, 6-minute walk test and       pacemaker interrogation in their randomized crossed over group setting.        Patients that have CI will get quality of life assessment using SF-36 questionnaire and       Aquarel questionnaire at baseline visit, 4 and 8 week visit in their randomized setting.
nan
This study is a multi-center, prospective, randomized, blinded trial. The study will consist       of approximately 265 patients who require treatment of persistent or permanent, symptomatic       atrial fibrillation by atrioventricular (AV) node ablation and permanent pacing therapy i.e.       "Ablate and Pace" therapy. All patients enrolled into the clinical study will be randomly       assigned to one of three groups using a randomization ratio of 2:2:1. Patients will be       assigned to receive either biventricular (biV) pacing with CLS-based rate adaptive pacing       using the legally marketed Protos DR/CLS (Group 1), or biventricular pacing with       accelerometer-based rate adaptive pacing using the Stratos LV (Group 2), or right ventricular       (RV) pacing with accelerometer-based rate adaptive pacing using the Stratos LV (Group 3).       Patients in all three groups will be implanted with legally marketed right and left       ventricular pacing leads. The patients, the core lab used to interpret the echocardiographic       data and the Clinical Events Committee adjudicating crossover, patient death and congestive       heart failure (CHF) hospitalizations will be blinded to the randomization assignment.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common inherited heart disease, affecting 1 in       500 of the general population. It is characterised by abnormal thickening of the heart       muscle. The various patterns of thickening of the muscle in the main pumping chamber, or left       ventricle (LV), can result in obstruction to blood flow within the heart, raising the       pressures in the heart and placing extra strain on the heart muscle.        The obstruction can cause patients to suffer from symptoms such as shortness of breath and       chest pain, along with poor exercise tolerance, and dizzy spells. In very symptomatic       patients with the commonest type of obstruction, invasive procedures performed either via an       open-heart or keyhole operation can reduce the increased basal septal muscle mass at the       point of obstruction. However, in around 1 in 10 HCM patients, the obstruction is deep within       the LV where a ring of thick muscle blocks blood flow when it contracts. These patients       provide a challenge for doctors, as this type of obstruction is much less suitable for open       heart or keyhole operation.        An alternative is to use a cardiac pacemaker to alter the timing of the contraction in the       ring of thick muscle such that different parts of the ring contract at different times and       thereby reduce obstruction to blood flow. The investigators' early experience with this new       treatment shows that carefully placing the pacemaker wires can reduce the obstruction and       improve patient symptoms.        Key questions of this research include:          -  How much can optimal ventricular pacing reduce the obstruction by?          -  How important is choosing which part of the heart the pacemaker activates first?          -  Does reducing obstruction in this way make patients better in the short and long term?
This is a prospective, multi-center clinical study designed to evaluate the long-term safety       of the Tendril MRI™ lead implanted with any SJM Brady MRI pacemaker or similar model (SJM       Brady MRI system) in subjects with a standard bradycardia pacing indication through 60 months       of follow up.        Additionally, the study will assess the safety of the pacemaker system in subject(s)       undergoing clinically indicated MRI scan(s). Any enrolled subject implanted with the SJM       Brady MRI system may be included in this evaluation if they are scheduled for or planning to       have a MRI scan during the course of the study.
ATI-2042 is being developed as an alternative to amiodarone, which is considered a first-line       therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation and is known to have serious side effects.       ATI-2042 was designed to have a reduced plasma half-life and a lower volume of distribution,       which is expected to result in an improved safety profile. In contrast to amiodarone,       ATI-2042 undergoes rapid metabolism via plasma and tissue esterases, which may reduce tissue       accumulation and toxicity. The current trial will determine if ATI-2042 retains the efficacy       profile of amiodarone without the side effects attributable to tissue accumulation seen with       long-term dosing.        This study is an early phase trial and some specific protocol information is proprietary and       not publicly available at this time. (Full information is available to trial participants.)
nan
Retained surgical items (e.g., sponges, needles, and instruments) are among the most       frequently reported medical errors and occur in an estimated 1 in 5000 operations. A retained       surgical item frequently causes a serious negative outcome, including re-operation (70-80% of       cases), readmission or prolonged hospital stay (30-60% of cases), sepsis (43% of cases), or       death (2% of cases). Retained surgical items are classed as "never events" by the Centers for       Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and CMS does not reimburse for additional medical care       related to the treatment for such a complication.        Sponges are by far the most common retained items and are estimated to account for 50-70% of       cases. The standard method to ensure that no sponge is left inside the body is manual       counting. Manual counting, however, carries a sensitivity and specificity of only about 77%       and 99%, respectively. In one study 62% of retained items were detected after the count was       reported as normal. If the manual count suggests that a sponge has been retained, the       standard method to detect it is by taking a radiograph. Radiographs, however, are       time-consuming and in one large retrospective study failed to detect retained items in 33% of       cases. The standard methods of detecting retained surgical sponges are clearly suboptimal.        Radiofrequency (RF) technology has recently been employed to improve the detection of       retained surgical sponges. A radiofrequency chip is sewn into the fabric of the sponge, and a       circular wand that emits a radiofrequency signal is passed over the patient. The wand also       serves as an antenna that detects a return signal from the chip in the sponge. If a chip is       detected it triggers an audio and a visual alarm on a console attached to the wand. In a       study involving 210 patients, RF detection systems had 100% sensitivity and specificity for       detecting retained sponges, even in morbidly obese patients. To minimize human error during       the scanning process, a new system has been developed where the patient lies on a mat that       emits the RF signal and serves as the antenna. In a separate study involving 203 patients,       the system using the RF mat had a sensitivity and specificity of 98.5% and 100% respectively.       To carry out these studies, sponges were placed underneath patients in a blinded manner.       Although it would seem that RF detection systems are superior to manual counting, it should       be emphasized that an RF detection system is not a substitute for manual counting, but rather       an adjunct to manual counting. The RF Assure ® Detection System manufactured by RF Surgical       System Inc. is now routinely used to detect retained sponges in the operating rooms at the       University of California, San Diego (UCSD) and at ~200 other hospitals.        There has been some concern that the radio frequency signals emitted by the RF Assure® device       might reprogram the settings on CIED such as pacemakers and internal cardiac defibrillators       (ICDs), since CIEDs are commonly programmed remotely using RF signals. For this reason, the       technology is not commonly used in surgeries with patients with CIEDs. In vitro testing was       done in a controlled setting to assess the compatibility of the RF Surgical Detection       Technology with permanent pacemakers and ICDs as well as temporary pacemakers, specifically       the Boston Scientific Cognis, St. Jude Medical Promote, and Medtronic Virtuoso devices,       finding no interference between the RF Assure® system and these devices. Although anecdotal       experience and in vitro testing has indicated that the RF Assure® system does not affect       CIEDs, it has not been established whether the RF Assure® system is suitable to use in       patients with CIEDs in a clinical setting. The purpose of this study is to determine whether       the RF Assure® device actually can reprogram CIEDs or cause them to malfunction when used in       routine clinical practice. This question is of particular importance because of the rising       number of surgical patients, especially cardiac patients, that have an implanted CIED.
Magnetic fields may potentially interfere with the function of cardiovascular implantable       electronic devices. Sterile magnetic drapes used to hold surgical instruments are often       placed on the patient's thorax, and they are likely to interfere with the function of these       devices.        This study compares the magnetic interference of a new prototype surgical magnetic drape made       with bottom-isolated ferrite magnets to the Covidien magnetic drape and 3 other commercially       available surgical magnetic drapes.
nan
nan
Detailed Description:        Design: This will be a randomised, double-blind 'placebo' controlled trial of optimised       programming versus standard rate-response settings, aiming to determine whether the short       term improvements translate into longer term benefits.        Study participants: 360 adult patients (>18years).        Study Procedures: Patients attending the heart failure clinic, the pacemaker clinic or       previous research participants will be approached with a standard letter and information       sheet and then a telephone call to make sure any remaining questions are answered.        Patients agreeing to participate will attend the clinical research facility (CRF) and will be       asked to sign a consent form. Each patient will have a standard device check, check of their       demographic data, and co-morbidities. The investigators will record a resting cardiac       ultrasound, and measure the force frequency relationship (FFR) to determine critical heart       rate (HR), and the optimal range of HR rise. All images will be stored for offline analysis.       Participants will then be asked to do a symptom-limited walk test on the treadmill (until       they cannot do any more). At this first visit, participants will also complete quality of       life questionnaires and be invited to participate in substudies including cardiac magnetic       resonance, blood tests, tests of autonomic dysfunction. All of these activities will take       place in the Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General Infirmary.        Randomisation: Each patient will then be randomised to either optimised programming (n=120)       as predicted by their force-frequency curve, standard settings (n=120) or no rate response       programming (n=120). In the optimised group, programming will keep heart rates below the       critical HR. Randomisation will be by a random number generator and programming will be       undertaken by one of my colleagues to maintain blinding.        Follow-up: Each patient will be called at one month to check that they are tolerating any       changes and will then be invited back at 6 months for a repeat resting echocardiogram,       treadmill walk test and quality of life assessment.        Data: All data will be stored on a bespoke Excel spreadsheet on an LTHT server in a       password-protected folder.        Primary Endpoint: The effects of heart rate programming that optimises heart rate for       contractility on change in treadmill-based walk distance over six months in patients with       heart failure and a pacemaker.        Secondary endpoints: 1) the safety of pacemaker programming optimised for heart rate in       patients with heart failure and a pacemaker, 2) the effect of this programming on change of       quality of life at 6 months 3) the effect of this programming on change in cardiac function       at 6 months.        Mechanistic endpoints: 1) The effect of heart rate programming on measures of autonomic       function, 2) Changes in cardiac function during exercise, 3) The effect of optimised heart       rate programming on strain, wall stress and perfusion by cardiac magnetic resonance, 4)       changes in biomarkers associated with heart failure
AV-Block of higher degree is the primary indication for pacing therapy for about 20% of       pacemaker patients. Pacing systems with only ventricular stimulation (VVI and VDD) have a       fraction of about 40% of all pacemakers in Germany. About 50% of the implanted pacemakers in       Germany are dual-chamber pacemakers and one half of them is used for treatment of AV blocks.        Picture 1: Fractions of pacing indications in Germany Picture 2: Fractions of used pacing       modes in Germany /1/        A lot of studies proved in the past that the pacing site influenced the development of       hemodynamics, heart failure (HF) and atrial fibrillation (AF). Unfortunately, the results are       not commonly applicable or statistically assured. Due to this, further examinations are       required in order to get explicit statements regarding application of alternative, nonapical       ventricular lead positioning.          1. Pilotphase It shall be determined whether a randomized positioning of ventricular leads            at 2 defined positions (either Group A: Positioning at right ventricular apex or Group            B:. Positioning at right ventricular high septum) is feasible. Included patients will            already by examined and followed according to protocol. After having proved feasibility            of randomized positioning, the data of these patients shall be used for evaluation of            the V-PASS study.          2. Study Phase It shall be evaluated how far 2 defined different ventricular lead positions            for permanent pacemaker therapy can influence the combined study endpoint mortality and            clinically relevant symptoms of heart failure. Further more the development of            hemodynamics and the incidence of atrial fibrillation shall be studied.
When a hemodynamically stable state is achieved, the external pacemaker will be switched off       for 30 minutes. Hemodynamic parameters will be acquired directly prior to switching off, 15       respectively 30 minutes after switching off, and 15 minutes after switching back on. To gain       insight in the natural course of stunning, this routine will be repeated the next morning. No       additional hemodynamic interventions will be allowed in these periods.
nan
The investigation of syncope (transient loss of consciousness with loss of postural tone,       collapse and spontaneous recovery) varies widely, is often lengthy and frequently expensive.       The intravenous adenosine test has been used in the investigation of syncope and is cheap,       safe and free of serious side effects. However, it is unclear what diagnosis the test       unearths. There is some evidence that the test readily identifies bradycardia pacing       indications.        In this study we plan to perform the adenosine test and implant a pacemaker should the test       be positive. In half of the patients we will turn the pacemaker "on" and in the other half       the pacemaker "off". The groups will swap over after six months. During this time we will       assess the number of syncopal episodes. Also, in those who have a negative adenosine test we       will implant a loop recorder to try to discover the cause of syncope.
nan
This study applies external diaphragm pacemaker and positive expiratory pressure therapy to       patients who received thoracic surgeries, ninety patients may be enrolled in this study.        Some metrics are used to evaluate the pulmonary rehabilitation status in postoperative       patients which include pulmonary function test, 6-Min Walking Test，Borg index, complications       incidence, chest tube draining time, and diaphragm muscle mobility.
Original proposal: Does iatrogenic chronotropic incompetence lead to impaired exercise       capacity in patients with CHF        Aim The aim of this proposal is to examine the effects of iatrogenic CI on exercise capacity       in control subjects and patients with chronic heart failure.        Hypothesis Iatrogenic chronotropic incompetence does not contribute significantly to       reductions in exercise capacity in patients with heart failure or control subjects with       pacemakers.        Methods REDUCING HEART RATE AT REST AND EXERCISE In patients with sinus rhythm, the present       proposal utilizes a heart failure medication called ivabradine. This agent, an If channel       blocker, specifically targets the sinus node leading to a slower heart rate. The agent is       approved and licensed for use in patients with heart failure at the doses proposed.       Ivabradine slows the sinus rate with none of the peripheral effects of beta-blockers. Heart       rate lowering with ivabradine improves cardiac function, and outcomes related to the degree       of bradycardia achieved.        In patients with atrial fibrillation, the present proposal will recruit patients with CRT and       atrial fibrillation that have undergone atrio-ventricular node (AVN) ablation to improve the       efficacy of CRT. Patients who have undergone AVN ablation are dependent upon their pacemaker,       and we can therefore control their heart rate accurately.        SUBJECT SELECTION Inclusion criteria We will only include patients able to give informed       written consent, which will be obtained in all subjects, and those capable of performing a       peak exercise test. Since we are performing the study on three groups of patients, further       inclusion criteria for each group are outlined below.        Inclusion criteria - CRT-sinus rhythm group We will enrol 25 patients with severe CHF on       otherwise optimally tolerated medical therapy who have undergone cardiac resynchronisation       therapy at least 3 months previously. These individuals will be on optimal medical therapy       for their heart failure with no change in medication or exacerbation for the preceding 3       months. They will not currently be taking ivabradine.        Inclusion criteria - CRT-atrial fibrillation group We will enrol 25 patients with severe CHF       on otherwise optimally tolerated medical therapy who have undergone cardiac resynchronisation       therapy at least 3 months previously. All patients will be previously pacemaker dependant or       have 'blocked' atrial fibrillation either due to medical therapy or previous       atrio-ventricular nodal ablation.        Inclusion criteria - control group The control subjects (n=25) will be recruited from the       general pacemaker clinic. They will undergo echocardiography to exclude structural heart       disease. They will have no contraindications to exercise testing or ivabradine.        Exclusion criteria We will exclude subjects with musculoskeletal disorders limiting exercise       capacity, patients with peripheral vascular disease, those with inflammatory disorders such       as rheumatoid arthritis, and airways disease. Other exclusions include contraindications to       ivabradine use such as severe hepatic impairment, significant renal impairment (creatinine       clearance <15ml.min-1), and long QT syndrome. We will only include patients able to give       informed written consent, which will be obtained in all subjects.        ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY Each subject will undergo a full echocardiographic examination. The images       will be stored on a commercially available database, (Echopac PC, GE-Vingmed, USA) and       analysed offline. We will assess LV systolic and diastolic function variables, mitral       regurgitation, and pulmonary artery pressure.        EXERCISE TESTING Patients will describe their own NYHA symptom class at the beginning of each       exercise session. Each individual will be invited for a familiarization test once agreeing to       the study. At least one week following the familiarization test, heart failure patients and       controls will return to the exercise laboratory and will be randomised to either ivabradine       (7.5mg) or placebo. The following week they will return for the second arm. The randomization       will be carried out in pharmacy to ensure blinding of the subject, the technician and the       investigator. After ingesting the capsule, the subject will be asked to wait for an hour       before the exercise test commences.        Prior to the start of exercise, patients' devices will be programmed to a base rate of 40       bts/min and they will then be they will be randomised to have their device programmed to       either rate response on or off. A screen will separate the electrocardiographic monitor,       which will be observed by the unblinded technician, from the metabolic cart, which will be       observed by the blinded physician. The following week the other mode will be activated. At       the end of each test the device will be returned to its original setting.        For the treadmill tests we will use the Bruce protocol modified by the addition of a 'stage       0' at onset consisting of 3 minutes of exercise at 1.61km/hr (1mile/hour) with a 5% gradient.       During each test, expired air will be collected continuously and metabolic gas exchange       analysis performed (Vmax 29, Sensormedics, USA). The system will be recalibrated prior to       each test. Subjects will be encouraged to exercise to exhaustion, and a respiratory exchange       ratio (RER), (VCO2/VO2) greater than 1.1 will be taken to suggest a maximal effort. The       anaerobic threshold for each test will be calculated using the VO2/VCO2 slope method. At the       end of each stage and at peak exercise subjects will be asked to indicate their score for       dyspnoea or fatigue on a scale from 0 (no symptoms) to 10 (maximal symptoms) using the       standardised Borg scoring system. The slope relating symptom scores against ventilation       (Borg/VE) for each subject can then be plotted. We will also examine other ventilatory       variables such as tidal volume (VT) and frequency (f) of ventilation.
It is expected to enroll 200 consecutive patients without previously diagnosed AF, who have       indications for implantation of dual chamber cardiac pacemakers according to the current       guidelines. All the patients will be randomly assigned into 2 groups. Patients in the RM       group will undergo the implantation of Ensura DR MRI SureScan pacing system, whereas patients       in the control group will receive ADAPTA DR pacing system without RM using. The impact of the       Care Link Express service on prevention of thromboembolism will be evaluated. The rate of       in-hospital visits for 1 patient per year and compliance with scheduled CareLink       transmissions (ratio of the number of the performed transmissions to the planned ones) will       be assessed in all patients in the remote monitoring group. Moreover, we are going to       estimate the interaction between the follow-up center and other healthcare facilities       equipped with the CareLink Express service, which will facilitate faster treatment decision.
Evaluation of Device Features and Diagnostics          -  Programmed parameters: Advanced pacemaker features (Autocapture, Auto sensitivity            control (ASC), Ventricular Intrinsic Preference (VIP®), Patient Notifier, RF telemetry,            and newer advanced features)          -  Device and lead measurements          -  Number of AT/AF, VT/VF, PMT and AMS episodes        Evaluation of Clinical Parameters          -  Indication for device implantation          -  Cardiac and arrhythmia history          -  Cardiac drug utilization          -  Cardiac events: incidence and onset of symptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF), onset of            heart failure (HF), incidence and onset of angina, occurrence of myocardial infarction            (MI), occurrence of transient ischemic attack (TIA)/ischemic stroke, and occurrence of            hemorrhagic stroke          -  Modified Specific Activity Scale (SAS)          -  Intrinsic QRS duration          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)          -  Adverse events          -  All-cause, cardiovascular and heart failure hospitalizations          -  All-cause, cardiovascular and heart failure mortality
There are two general approaches to the patient with syncope and bifascicular block, a common       substrate for intermittent heart block. The first is to assume that intermittent heart block       is the cause, and simply implant a pacemaker. The second is to implant a digital ECG loop       recorder with a lifespan of 2 - 3 years, determine the rhythm abnormalities during the next       faint, and treat accordingly. Both approaches expose patients to a risk of fainting and its       sequelae, and both carry device-related complications.Which approach is superior is unknown.
Faecal incontinence is a devastating condition affecting daily living and quality of life. A       new treatment Sacral Nerve Stimulation (SNS) has over the last decade given new hope to these       patients. In Europe SNS is routinely offered to patients not archiving satisfactory       continence result with standard non-surgical treatments. SNS is electrical stimulation of the       sacral nerve root(s2,3 or 4). Stimulation of this nerve roots results in improved continence.       The mechanism of action is at present not well described. Recent studies have shown that the       effect of SNS is by means a neuromodulation in the central nervous system, whereas direct       stimulation of efferent nerves to the anal sphincter and the pelvic floor has less       significance.        The aim of this study is to describe changes in regional cerebral blood flow (RCBF), with       positron emission tomography (PET), in patients implanted bilaterally with sacral       neuromodulators with the indication idiopathic faecal incontinence.        RCBF in three deferent stimulations settings will be compared. PET will be performed before       and one hour after changes in the activity status of the pacemakers. Four weeks prior to the       first scan, patients are informed to switch both neurostimulator off. PET will be performed       with the pacemaker settings: OFF/OFF (Stimulation status of left/right pacemaker), On/Off and       On/On. The order of the On/OFF and On/On period will be random. Unilateral stimulation will       be performed with the pacemaker there has the best efficacy, determined prior to study       enrolment. The interval between these three pacemaker settings is four weeks. Four weeks       prior to each PET scan the patients fill in bowel habit diaries, bowel habit questionnaires       and quality of life assessments.        The association between continence and changes in RCBF will be studied. Additional RCBF and       quality of life will be compared.
nan
nan
Many patients who are 80 years of age and older, develop AF or CHF. Physiologic pacing has       been shown to prevent AF compared to ventricular pacing. Whether prevention of AF and CHF by       physiologic pacing reduces emergency room visits or hospitalizations for cardiovascular       causes in this population in unknown.        The investigators wish to determine the optimal pacing mode for this patient population that       would enable optimal management of cardiovascular problems, resulting in improved quality of       life and minimizing use of health care facilities.        Patients recruited to the study will be randomized to either DDDR or VVIR pacing, and       followed in the clinic every 6 months for the 3 years of the study.
Permanent pacemakers have sometimes been used to treat patients with recurrent vasovagal       syncope. This is because patients with vasovagal syncope often experience bradycardia at the       time of their syncope. Unfortunately, pacemakers are often ineffective in preventing syncope.        Classical cardiovascular hemodynamics would suggest that increasing the heart rate (HR; via       pacemaker) should increase the cardiac output (CO). This is because:        CO = HR x Stroke volume (SV).        The assumption is that the SV is fixed during manipulation of the HR. However, this might not       be the case. As the number of beats per minute (HR) increases, the cardiac cycle length (R-R       interval [RRI]) shortens, as a function of simple math. This means that the time in cardiac       systole shortens, and the time in cardiac diastole shortens. Since cardiac diastole is when       the heart fills up with blood, faster HR can be associated with decreased cardiac filling       times. This, in turn, could compromise the SV. However, there is a paucity of data as to what       happens to SV and CO at different HR. Further, it is possible that these effects will be       different when a person is lying down supine versus when a patient is upright (when stroke       volume will be lower).        The investigators will seek to determine the effects of different HR on both SV & CO. In       order to safely manipulate the HR, they will study patients with permanent pacemakers in whom       HR manipulation can be done in a safe and non-invasive manner.
nan
Patients entering the study will attend for implantation of a CRT pacemaker device with one       lead positioned on the His bundle. This will be performed either at the patient's local       hospital or at Imperial College NHS healthcare Trust, no later than 4 months after the       patient's screening visit.        All patients will be implanted with a Pacemaker or Implantable cardioverter defibrillator       (ICD). In all patients a pacing lead will be positioned in the right atrium (typically the       right atrial appendage). All patients will have a pacemaker lead positioned on the His bundle       in order to obtain direct His-bundle capture. If it is not possible to successfully implant a       His-bundle lead with selective direct His bundle capture or non-selective capture with < 40ms       prolongation of the QRS duration, then a lead will be implanted in a lateral branch of the       coronary sinus.        In patients who do not have an indication for an Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD)       a second ventricular lead will be implanted in a lateral branch of the coronary sinus. If       direct His pacing has not been successfully achieved then a further lead will be positioned       at the RV apex. In patients who do have an indication for an Implantable cardioverter       defibrillator the ICD lead will be positioned in the right ventricle (either RV apex or RV       septum).        AV delay optimisation will be performed using acute non-invasive blood pressure acquired       using the Finometer device (Finapres Medical systems, Netherlands). The BHF (British Heart       Foundation) alternation protocol will be used in order to minimise the effect of background       noise.        After implantation of the device there will be a 2 month run-in period prior to       randomisation, the device will be programmed not to deliver His bundle pacing therapy during       this period.(Back up only pacing and defibrillator function will be enabled).        Two months after patients are implanted with their device, patients will be randomised to       either receive active pacing treatment or back up only pacing (pacemaker programmed to VVI 30       bpm). After a further 6 months they will be crossed over to the alternative treatment arm.       Treatment allocation will be obtained using an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS)       programmed with a randomisation schedule provided by the trial statistician. Appropriate       blocking will be used.
nan
nan
This is a randomized, prospective, single-blind study that evaluates the effect of removal of       scar tissue during pacemaker/ICD pocket revision on infection and complications. Subjects       will be randomly assigned to either removal of the scar tissue surrounding the implanted       device during device replacement or to device replacement without removal of this tissue.       Subjects will be followed for one year post-procedure for the occurrence of infection,       bleeding/hematoma, or other complications.
The Micra CA study is a prospective, non-randomized, multi-center, study designed to allow       controlled access of the Micra system when used as intended. All subjects enrolled in the       Micra CA Study will be prospectively followed from implant, at 6-month intervals until study       closure (i.e. FDA approval). Patients with previous or existing inactive implanted cardiac       stimulation systems will have additional follow ups.
nan
Background:        Right ventricular (RV) pacing may lead to pacing-induced cardiomyopathy (PICM) and heart       failure (HF). The detrimental effects of RV pacing have been attributed to the abnormal and       dyssynchronous electrical and mechanical activation of the myocardium. The activation is       affected by the RV pacing site. Understanding the consequences of different RV pacing sites       and the patterns of dyssynchrony may help to choose the optimal treatment for the individual       patient.        Aim and objectives:        The overall aim of this project is to investigate the association between RV pacing site and       the risk of PICM. Contrast enhanced cardiac computed tomography (CT) will be applied for       precise localization of the RV pacing. Furthermore, investigation of the association between       PICM and different mechanical and electrical myocardial activation patterns during RV pacing       will be conducted using new echocardiographic and electrocardiographic methods.        Methods:        The study is designed as a retrospective cohort study with clinical follow-up. Patients with       prior pacemaker implantation due to advanced atrioventricular block will be included. The       study baseline is retrospective and defined as time of pacemaker implantation and follow-up       is time of inclusion. Baseline data will be extracted from the Danish Pacemaker- and ICD       Registry, electronic medical records (EMR) and review of echocardiographs. Follow-up data       will be extracted from existing data in the EMRs as well as generated during a follow-up       visit with a clinical examination. For assessment of cardiac function, RV lead position and       electrical and mechanical activations patterns, the examination will include a transthoracic       echocardiography, an electrocardiogram, a 3-dimensional chest photo, and a contrast-enhanced       cardiac CT. Data will be analysed for differences between those who develop PICM and those       who do not.        Expected outcomes and perspectives:        The hope is that this project will generate knowledge and awareness on pacemaker treatment       and the risk of PICM. Understanding the pathophysiology behind PICM is key to learning how to       prevent it. Accordingly, this project has the potential to contribute to improving pacemaker       treatment and the quality of care for the large and still growing PM population.
Prospective, multicenter, observational registry designed to collect data on syncopal       relapses in patients undergoing pacemaker implantation for bradyarrhythmic syncope. All       consecutive patients aged ≥18 years who underwent pacemaker implantation for syncope of       bradyarrhythmic aetiology (proven or presumed) at participating centers from January 2010 to       December 2013 were enrolled in the registry. During follow-up the occurrence of the first       syncopal relapse after pacemaker implantation is recorded.
Despite greatly increased utilization of pacemaker and internal cardioverter-defibrillator       (ICD) therapy for various indications in recent years, there are relatively few published       studies on bleeding complications associated with the implantation of these devices. The       purpose of our study is to assess the incidence and severity of hemorrhagic complications       resulting from pacemaker and ICD implantation in patients treated with oral anticoagulant       warfarin or acetyl salicylic acid.        There are no unified guidelines regarding warfarin use during pacemaker implantation. A case       by case approach is commonly employed regarding whether to interrupt or to continue       anticoagulant therapy prior to the procedure. Interrupting the therapy may expose the patient       to thromboembolic complications, whereas continuing it can increase the risk of perioperative       bleeding. Thus, either approach could potentially increase patient morbidity and prolong the       hospital stay. Therefore, an evidence based choice of an appropriate approach in preparing       the anticoagulant-treated patients for pacemaker implantation could have significant impact       on both patient safety and over-all procedural cost.        We intend to assess the rate of hemorrhagic and thrombotic complications as well as the       length of hospital stay associated with pacemaker or ICD implantation in patients randomized       either to continue or to interrupt their warfarin treatment. One control group will be formed       of pacemaker-receiving patients on acetyl salicylic acid as well as one group of patients on       no medications affecting the coagulation system or thrombocyte aggregation. Potential risk       factors for bleeding or thromboembolic complications will be searched.        A total of 400 patients will be recruited into this multicenter study conducted at five       hospitals in Finland. Warfarin users (n=200) will be randomly allocated into two groups: A.       uninterrupted warfarin therapy maintained at accepted intensity (INR 2 to 3), and B.       interruption of warfarin 2 days prior to device implantation. Control groups will comprised       as described above with one hundred patients in each. The end-points of the study are:       occurrences of major bleeding, haemorrhages and hematomas at pacemaker pocket, utilization of       adjunctive therapies to control bleeding (e.g. Vitamin K or Fresh frozen plasma), need for       surgical wound revision and thromboembolic complications. The duration of hospital stay will       also be recorded. At two of the centres (Turku University Hospital and Satakunta Central       Hospital) all patients will also be randomly assigned into two groups in which the       implantation procedure will either be or not be guided by venous angiography.        Patients willing to participate in the study will receive both verbal and written information       on the study and they will be asked to sign an informed consent. All devices will be       implanted in a normal fashion according to generally accepted clinical guidelines. A variety       of clinical and laboratory variables will be recorded in each study group to identify risk       factors for bleeding and thromboembolism.        The aims of our study are to establish among patients implanted with pacemakers (1) whether       uninterrupted warfarin therapy will increase the rate and severity of bleeding complications,       (2) whether interruption of warfarin results in increased thromboembolic events, (3) whether       aspirin treatment increases bleeding complications compared, and we also seek to identify       factors predisposing to haemorrhagic complications.        Our main hypothesis is that a cardiac pacing device can be safely implanted without       discontinuation of the anticoagulant therapy.
nan
Cardiac function during exercise Cardiac output is a function of stroke volume (the volume of       blood ejected with each beat) and heart rate. During exercise cardiac output must rise to       supply exercising muscles. This occurs by an increase in both heart rate and stroke volume.       Limitations to heart rate rise (chronotropic incompetence (CI)) or stroke volume increases       (contractility) or a combination of both might contribute to lower cardiac output during       exercise.        Increases in contractility during exercise are under two major influences:       depolarization-rate dependent (heart rate dependent), and catecholamine-dependent. Normal       increases in contractility during exercise require both to be functioning normally. As       mentioned, the catecholamine system is chronically overactive in CHF such that there is       down-regulation of receptors making the sympathetic system less sensitive and responsive. The       depolarization-rate dependent (catecholamine-independent) mechanism, whereby increases in       heart rate lead to increases in the force of contraction known as the Treppe phenomenon, or       the force frequency relationship (FFR), was described by Bowditch in the late 19th century,       and is thought to be impaired in CHF such that contractility in heart failure does not rise       normally with increases in heart rate and in fact reduces once heart rate rises above a       threshold.        How to determine force-frequency relationship in humans        The investigators have established a reliable, reproducible and non-invasive method by which       to assess the FFR in patients with pacemaker devices. The investigators subsequently       demonstrated that optimizing heart rate rise to within the range for optimal contractility is       associated with acute improvements in exercise capacity. The FFR assessment protocol is       described below.        This study will have two phases:        For the first stage, 50 patients undergoing cardiac resynchronisation therapy will be       invited, to participate in an observational, double-blind, randomised cross-over study       exploring the acute effects of multi-point pacing (MPP) on the force frequency relationship       and exercise capacity at around 6 weeks and 6 months following the implant. The plan is not       to explore whether MPP improves remodeling following a CRT implant so MPP will be programmed       off during the first 6 months after implantation.        At the end of the first six months, if there are promising results from the first stage,       participants will then randomly be allocated to MPP on or off in a double-blind parallel       group study. After a further 6 months (12 months after the initial implant) they will return       for a single visit during which they will have an echocardiogram and exercise test.        Six weeks following device implant (phase 1)        At the first visit, participants will undergo a pacemaker check, a review of medications and       other medical history. They will sign a consent form. They will then undergo a resting       echocardiogram.        Following this, their pacemaker will be randomly programmed to MPP or usual pacing.       Programming will be performed by a secondary (unblinded) cardiac physiologist, who will also       be responsible for watching the electrocardiogram during each test. Patients and the primary       cardiac physiologist undertaking the echocardiogram will be unaware of allocation. Images       will be collected at rest following which atrial pacing will be initiated in the DDD-mode at       50 beats/min (or the next highest 'round figure' above the baseline heart rate). After four       minutes, images will be recorded, and the pacing rate will then be increased in a stepwise       20-beat interval with images recorded after every four minutes. This step-wise increase will       be repeated until the maximum predicted heart rate as per the calculation by Astrand       (220-age) is reached. At this point peak data will be collected and pacing will then return       to baseline settings. Throughout this assessment, at each stage a blood pressure will be       recorded to allow the calculation of the force frequency relationship. Five minutes after the       end of atrial pacing, a final set of images and a blood pressure will be recorded. Angina       pectoris at any point during these tests will be an indication that the test needs to be       stopped and the heart rate will be allowed to return to normal.        This assessment will be undertaken twice during this first visit, once with MPP on and once       with MPP off in random order.        Following these echocardiographic assessments (which will occur at rest on the echo couch),       patients will undergo a peak walk test on the treadmill during which peak oxygen consumption       (a cardiopulmonary exercise test) will be assessed. Prior to this test, the pacemaker heart       rate programming will be optimised in line with previous data, and MPP will be either       activated or left off in random order with allocation carried out in a double-blind fashion.       Participants will be invited back at one week (7 weeks after the implant procedure) for a       second exercise test for the second arm (MPP off or on).        Images will be stored for offline analysis and governance purposes. Pacemaker devices will be       set to usual programming modes at the end of each visit.        Six months after the device implant:        At around 6 months after the initial implant, the above protocol will be repeated with two       echocardiograms and one exercise test at the first visit and one exercise test one week       later. At one of these 6-month visits, patients will be asked to complete two quality of       questionnaires (Minnestoa Living with Heart Failure and the EQ5D-5L).        Long term assessment (phase 2):        At six months, patients will be invited to continue into a second stage during which MPP will       be randomly programmed on or left off. This will be a double-blind, randomised, parallel       cohort study. Participants will come back at a further 6 months (12 months after implant) for       a final visit which will include echocardiography and a treadmill test and also complete the       two quality of life questionnaires. At this point, unless there is clear evidence of benefit       of MPP, we will decide to turn off this programming mode in those that were randomised to       'MPP-on', or on in those randomised to 'MPP-off'. This will be based upon individual       assessment until the results of the entire study are known.        Data analysis plan A measure of contractility will be collected at each heart rate interval.       These can be plotted against heart rate for each patient to achieve three novel variables per       patient (peak contractility, heart rate for peak contractility and the slope of the FFR). The       study aims to determine whether these three variables change over time following CRT       implantation, and whether they are influenced by MPP.        These comparison projects and the randomised placebo-controlled trial are exploratory and       feasibility studies respectively. The sample size for the former will be reviewed after the       first 10 patients are enrolled.
Mobilization after cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIED) implantation is highly       variable between centers, some discharging home after 3-4 hours while others request bed       restriction for 24 hours. Concern about lead dislodgements due to early mobilization are       probably not justified. Bed restriction may result in considerable inconvinience to the       patients.        Patients will be randomally assigned to early mobilization (after 4 hours) or bed restriction       till the morning after the procedure.        Primary outcome: lead malfunction, patients' satisfaction
The study will evaluate implant lead electrical measurements and changes over time, estimate       the correlation between lead location and selective vs non-selective His bundle pacing, and       estimate the correlation between long-term lead performance and implant characteristics. Data       from the study may be used to standardize the implant workflow to help improve the ease and       predictability of His bundle pacing implants.
nan
nan
The number of cardiac implantable electronic device (CIED) implantations has increased over       recent years (1) with approximately 1.2-1.4 million CIEDs are being implanted annually       worldwide.(2) Consequently this has been associated with increasing rates of infection and       lead malfunctions, affecting approximately 1-2% of all CIED cases.(3)        Recently, it is estimated that between 10 000 and 15 000 leads are extracted worldwide each       year.(4) Over the past few decades, transvenous lead extraction (TLE) has evolved as the       preferred method for leads removal being less invasive compared to surgical removal by open       heart surgery which is now reserved for cases with high risk procedures or a very large       vegetation.        Most frequent indications for TLE are infection (accounting for 52.8%) and lead dysfunction       (accounting for 38.1%) of all cases of TLE. (5)        There have been different approaches (superior and inferior approaches) and techniques for       TLE. Current techniques employ mechanical and/or laser equipment with variable success rates.       The locking stylet has been the principal tool in these techniques, while the telescoping       (powered or non-powered) mechanical or laser sheaths serve as the most important ancillary       tools.        Despite being a safe procedure with minor complications ranging from 0.06 to 6.2%, but       serious complications may still arise in 0.2-1.8 % of cases in even the most experienced       hands with mortality rates in several large registries amounting 0.2 - 1.2 %.(6) Although       many studies have tried to identify risk factors for complications including patient/lead       profile and centre/operator experience, major studies still have conflicting results.        Recently, the hybrid approach, with mini-thoracotomy or thoracoscopy, has been introduced and       supposed to be associated with increased safety in challenging TLE procedures. (7, 8)
The purpose(s) of the study is (are) to evaluate several features available in EnPulse Series       pacemaker and report the long term benefit of Atrial Capture Management (ACM) and Ventricular       Capture Management (VCM) as demonstrated by accuracy in comparison with manual measurements       and variability of ACM and VCM thresholds.        In addition, an evaluation of the timesaving and qualitative benefits of the device feature       known as Quick Look II (the computer interface screen of the device programmer) will be       measured through the use of a questionnaire completed by the health care professionals       involved in patient follow-up care.        This is a one-to-one randomized, multicenter, prospective study in which patients receiving       new EnPulse pacemaker implants will be randomized to each of three study arms, 1) routine       manual follow-up and follow-up using the automatic features; 2) ACM diagnostics detail on or       VCM diagnostics detail on; 3) PMOP on / off or PMOP off / on (6 month cycle).
Data pending
Background:          -  Potential negative effects of pacing in the RV-apex are well documented          -  Asynchronous ventricular activation          -  reduction of systolic and diastolic LV function          -  Experimental data: histological changes          -  Asymmetric LV hypertrophy and thinning          -  However, study results comparing septal / RVOT-pacing versus RV-apical pacing            controversial:          -  Acute versus chronic          -  Small number of cases, uncontrolled, unblinded,          -  Brief periods of observation in the cross-over design (3 months)          -  "RVOT" often summarizes different stimulation sites: high RVOT, lateral, septal.            Actually only limited data with proven septal stimulation          -  No objective performance assessment (CPX)          -  Assessment of alternative stimulation site previously RVOT versus RV-apex,          -  ventricular pacing compared to ventricular pacing, then tested a potential harm to            another          -  The question of the optimal pacing mode of patients with SSS (DDDR versus AAIR) appears            to be open again. While in Germany, two-chamber systems with AAI [R] mode with            ventricular back-up are used, should the DDD (R) mode with an AV delay ≤ 220 ms be the            preferred pacing mode, according to the results of the DANPACE trial for patients with            SSS [DANPACE, ESC 2010, Stockholm].        Aim:        - to evaluate chronic effects of proven right ventricular septal compared to minimized right       ventricular septal pacing in patients with SSS        Inclusion criterion:        -Pacemaker indication according to current guidelines: sick sinus syndrome (SSS)        Exclusion criteria:          -  Life expectancy < 2 years          -  Age <18 years          -  Noncompliance with regard to participation in the study          -  Pregnancy          -  AV block ° 2 and higher          -  Permanent atrial fibrillation          -  Heart failure NYHA III and IV, reduced LV-EF <40%          -  ICD indication          -  Acute coronary syndrome. PCI or CABG <3 months          -  Heart transplant          -  Placement of septal RV electrode is not possible        Study design:          -  Prospective, monocentric, randomized, double-blinded          -  Run-in phase: 4 weeks AAI [R]-DDD [R]          -  ECG, PM-interrogation, echocardiography, performance diagnostics, CPX, QoL questionnaire          -  Randomization: two groups 4 weeks (between 3 to 6 weeks) after implant A) septal right            ventricular chamber pacing: mode DDD [R] versus B) Reduction of unnecessary ventricular            pacing: AAI [R]-DDD [R].          -  FU: 6 and 12-months          -  ECG, Holter-ECG, PM-interrogation, echocardiography, performance diagnostics, CPX, QoL            questionnaire          -  Extension of follow-up if possible        Primary endpoints:        -LV ejection fraction and end-systolic LV volume after 12 months.        Secondary endpoints:        -LV end-diastolic volume, TAPSE, parameters of dyssynchrony (SPWMD, LV-PEP, IVMD), AF-burden,       % ventricular pacing, CPX: peak oxygen consumption (peak VO2), VO2 AT, VO2/HR, VE/VCO2 slope;       QoL scores (SF-36) after 12 months.        Blinding:          -  Patient compared to the pacing mode          -  Physician: offline analysis of echo and CPX blinded to the pacing mode        Statistics/sample size estimation:        In order to detect a difference in LVEF of 5% and for LV-ESV of 5 mL between the 2 groups       after 12 months:          -  90% power/alpha 5%: 84 patients per group          -  80% power/alpha 5%: 63 patients per group               -  10% for compensation of drop-outs / patients lost of follow-up. Two-sided 5% type 1                 error Analysis intention-to-treat and based on the finally programmed pacing mode.        Material          -  PG: market released dual chamber pacemakers with the ability to pace AAI(R) -DDD(R)          -  pacing leads: market-released standard active electrodes (eg. BSCI FineLine 4470 and            4471) Implantation          -  Transvenously          -  RA-electrode: if possible, short atrial conduction time          -  RV electrode: septal verified under multi-level screening (RAO/LAO) and ECG (LBBB narrow            <150 ms / inferior axis)
This prospective cohort study to use an established MRI device safety protocol to decrease       the risk of clinically indicated MR imaging in patients with implantable cardiac devices. All       devices will undergo a complete interrogation and testing of thresholds, sensing, battery       voltage and impedances prior to and following imaging. Pre-MRI, devices will be programmed to       setting that will ensure MRI safety. During imaging, patients will blood pressure, heart rate       and O2 sat level will be monitored continuously.
The implanted CRM device will have shock therapy and rate sensor temporarily deactivated or       placed in magnet mode during the time the IMED-4 is activated. The IMED-4 will be activated       for a time not to exceed 15 minutes. During the time the IMED-4 is active, the CRM device       programmer will print the voltage sensing of the implanted lead in real-time. The printout       will be examined for the presence of far-field sensing artifacts.
the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) suggest the following treatments       options can be considered for patients with recurrent persistent atrial fibrillation:          1. Direct current cardioversion (DCCV) with concomitant anti-arrhythmic treatment.          2. Permanent pacemaker implantation (PPM) and atrio-ventricular (AV) node ablation.          3. Left atrial catheter ablation.        These treatment options have not been directly compared and each has their own advantages and       disadvantages.          1. DC cardioversion is highly successful at restoring sinus rhythm and is a relatively            cheap intervention. There is however a high recurrence rate of AF and cardioversion may            need to be repeated multiple times.          2. Permanent pacemaker implantation and AV node ablation, 'ablate and pace' therapy            provides rapid relief of symptoms and improved quality of life. Patients remain in            atrial fibrillation but have a regular heart rhythm and controlled rate and avoid            potential side-effects of medications. Following AV node ablation patients are dependent            on the pacemaker and as such this treatment option is usually reserved for those over 65            years or age. Costs are modest and both the pacemaker insertion and AV node ablation            procedures take less than 1 hour to perform.          3. Catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation aims to restore and sustain sinus rhythm.            Procedural success rates are 50-60% after a single procedure and 80-85% after repeat            procedures and it can take several months for all procedures in an ablation strategy to            be performed. Procedural costs are high due to the equipment used and time taken for            each ablation, usually 1.5-4 hours.
The study is a randomized study 1:1 AF ablation vs non AF ablation. Patients are followed for       1 year. 38 patients will be required to show a significant reduction in AF burden.
nan
This prospective, non-randomized, observational study will be conducted at 35 centers       worldwide where the study devices have 3T MR Conditional labeling; up to 110 patients will be       enrolled, and will satisfy the recent PMCF requirement to maintain the CE mark.
The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a new method of preventing the       human preterm uterine contractions of labor during electrical monitoring. The objective is to       test a method for the inhibition of human preterm uterine contractions with an electrical       pacemaker, electrical inhibition (EI). The study will investigate EI associated changes in       preterm uterine contraction frequency as monitored by objective uterine tocodynamometry and       adjunct electromyography (EMG) and electrohysterogram (EHG). The endpoint is the       statistically significant EI induced decrease in the gold standard tocodynamometric monitored       preterm uterine contraction frequency. The adjunct EMG and EHG monitoring provides valuable       adjunct data about the electrical activity of the preterm uterine contractions and the effect       of EI on this activity.        The investigators hypothesize that human preterm uterine contractions can be safely and       objectively inhibited with a weak electrical current provided by an electrical inhibition       (EI)/uterine pacemaker device. This effect can be assessed by the use of a non-invasive       tocodynamometer. It has been previously been shown that the frequency of contractions during       preterm labor can be lowered by EI applied by the use of an intravaginal catheter carrying       electrodes similar to a cardiac pacemaker (Karsdon et al). The investigators hypothesize that       this effect relates to the timing and length of EI exposure.
nan
nan
The MODULAR ATP Clinical Study will enroll subjects with a standard Implantable Cardioverter       Defibrillator (ICD) indication applying international practice guidelines, as well as those       who already have an implanted S-ICD System and satisfy the inclusion criteria for this study,       while not meeting any exclusion criteria. Subjects will be followed for at least 6 months       following mCRM Therapy System implantation.
nan
MiroCam (IntroMedic, Ltd, Seoul, Korea) is a small bowel capsule endoscope using human body       communication for data transmission. There is a concern of potential interactions between       cardiac devices and capsule endoscope. This clinical study was designed to evaluate the       potential influence of the MiroCam on cardiac pacemaker and implantable cardiac       defibrillator.
This is a randomized, single-blinded study of 40 patients to a strategy of HB pacing versus       CS pacing, and remain blinded to their treatment allocation. Both treatment options use       standard-of-care, FDA-approved devices. The distinction is only in the allocation toward HB       pacing and CS pacing. Treating physicians will be aware of assignment in order to facilitate       routine device follow-up. Echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evaluation will also be       performed in a blinded manner.        Cross-over is permitted between treatment group allocation if:          -  CS lead cannot be placed due to difficult cannulation of the CS, limited branches at the            posterolateral or lateral wall, or phrenic nerve capture. These subjects may then            cross-over to HB pacing.          -  HB pacing subjects may cross-over if HB lead cannot be positioned with adequate            stability and reasonable pacing output, or if QRS width does not narrow by at least 20%            or to a QRS width of ≤ 130 msec.        Implant procedure will be per routine percutaneous access, as is standard for pacemaker and       ICDs. All subjects will receive an FDA-approved cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker       or defibrillator device, as per standard of care outlined for the subject. In order to       facilitate optimal lead placement, arterial access for levo-phase CS angiography and/or LV       septal mapping to characterize site of bundle-branch block may also be performed, at the       discretion of the implanting physician per his/her standard practice.        Follow-up will be performed at 2 weeks post-implant for incision check and device       interrogation as is standard of care. In addition, routine device and clinical follow-up will       be scheduled at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Electrocardiography (ECG) will be performed       pre-implant, prior to hospital discharge, at 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months.       Echocardiography will be performed pre-implant and 6 months to evaluate for change in LVEF,       chamber dimension, and wall motion with strain imaging as is standard of care in the       treatment of patients with advanced heart failure. NYHA functional class and quality of life       (utilizing the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire) will be assessed pre-implant and at       6 months.
Patients with aortic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, mitral regurgitation, aortic       regurgitation, artificial heart valve regurgitation or stenosis, and tricuspid valve       regurgitation associated with pacemaker leads who are referred for clinically-indicated       echocardiographic exams at Mayo Clinic, in Jacksonville, Florida will be screened for       participation in the study. The plan is to have 292 people take part in this study. This       minimal risk study will consist of the recording of patient data, activity and bleeding       questionnaires, and collection and analysis of blood samples. Each blood sample will be       analyzed for von Willebrand Factor antigen and activity, and von Willebrand Factor multimers,       and BNP. Blood samples will be sent to the Mayo Special Coagulation Lab for analysis.        Objective:        This study seeks to assess the degree of association of the von Willebrand Factor activity       indices and BNP to the severity of cardiac lesions, and to note a relationship between       acquired bleeding the the hematologic abnormalities. Plasma will be stored in attempt to       develop new in vitro tests of von Willebrand factor (VWF) activity.
The modified Microlife blood pressure monitor is able to detect atrial fibrillation (AF) with       high sensitivity (95%) and specificity (86%) and has a positive predictive value of 68% and       negative predictive value of 98% for single readings. In addition, the modified device was       also able to accurately classify the majority of the anomalous non-AF rhythms, although the       specificity was highly variable, dependent upon the rhythm. However sinus rhythm was detected       with a specificity of 97%. However, we do not currently know if the device would demonstrate       a similar sensitivity in detecting AF in patients with paroxysmal AF.        Therefore, the present study will assess the sensitivity and specificity of the automated       oscillometric device using a new AF algorithm among pacemaker patients with fast AF and       atrial high-rate episodes and evaluate the effect of the specific rhythm abnormalities on the       specificity for AF.
nan
After being developed for the treatment of aortic stenosis in inoperable patients, trans       aortic valve implantation (TAVI) techniques and devices have gradually improved, and its use       can now be considered in low-risk populations. . However, the need for pacemaker implantation       after TAVI remains one of the most common complications, and this issue needs to be addressed       before further expanding the TAVI indications.        Implantation of PM after TAVI is associated with increased morbidity and mortality, and there       are no formal predictors of these conduction disturbances. Some studies suggest that the       existence of preoperative conduction disturbances (eg, right bundle branch block or 1st       degree AVB) are associated with greater PM implantation or greater reliance on ventricular       pacing.        Other studies have focused on anatomical measurements such as the height of the membranous       septum obtained on the pre TAVI scanner, calcifications of the aortic ring and the depth of       the valve implantation obtained on the angiography of the TAVI procedure. . The depth of       valve implantation in relation to the height of the membranous septum would be a predictor of       conduction disorders and PM implantation post TAVI.        Anatomically, the left branch of the bundle of HIS originates approximately 6 mm below the       aortic annulus. Implantation of TAVI can affect the conduction tissues and lead to conduction       abnormalities where the penetrating portion of the HIS emerges on the surface of the LV       flushing chamber. The farther away the emerging part of the HIS is from the ring, the less       likely it is that an implant will encroach on it, and impair conduction.        Because the emerging part of the bundle of His is "sandwiched" between the membranous septum       and the posterior crest of the muscular septum, the lower end of the membranous septum       provides an anatomical landmark for the left ventricular exit point of the bundle of His,       with the length of the membranous septum equivalent to the distance aortic ring - bundle of       HIS.        The STIM TAVI study showed that 30% of patients implanted with a post-TAVI pacemaker did not       have high-grade AVB beyond 7 days post-implantation. Patients with early AVB (D1-D7) were at       high risk of developing late AVB. The study did not identify a population at low risk of       late-onset AVB, nor any pre-TAVI clinical or paraclinical criteria predictive of post-TAVI       AVB.        The study of the anatomy of the membranous septum and the height of implantation of the       aortic prosthesis in the STIM TAVI population would make it possible to analyze new       predictive criteria for late AVB (after D7).
IVORY is a prospective, multi-center, randomized within-patient, single-blinded study to       gather data to support Right Atrial Auto Threshold and RYTHMIQ
This is a single center, open label, prospective randomized pilot study to evaluate the       capture threshold of His Bundle versus left bundle area pacing. Secondary analysis will focus       on changes in left ventricular performance and mechanical synchrony. Symptomatic       bradyarrhythmias are effectively treated with cardiac pacemakers.The amount of pacing by the       lead positioned in the bottom chamber of the heart at traditional sites such as the right       ventricular apex have been associated with increased rates of atrial fibrillation, heart       failure, and mortality. Traditional pacing sites result in cardiac electromechanical       dyssynchrony, for which alternate pacing sites to minimize these untoward effects have been       sought. HIS bundle pacing, which utilizes a patient's native conduction, has demonstrated       improved electrical synchrony and left ventricular function when compared to traditional       pacing at the tip of the bottom chamber. Barriers to wide spread application to this       technique include the His bundle anatomic location and its attendant difficulties associated       with implant, as well as higher capture thresholds leading to decreased battery duration of       the pacemaker. An alternative to HIS bundle pacing is placing the lead just past the HIS       bundle area, which is further in the heart, and to actively fixate the lead into the       interventricular septum. This is referred to as Left Bundle Pacing, as it may electrically       capture the left bundle, which would simulate a patient's native conduction. The researchers       will evaluate the two different pacing sites (HIS bundle and Left Bundle area sites) to       determine how effectively the heart pumps with each pacing site.        Patients requiring pacemaker implant will be screened for study eligibility and approached       for informed consent. Baseline assessments including echocardiogram and ECG will be obtained.       A standard of care echo done within 3 months of the procedure will be used as the baseline       echo. Once enrolled, the researchers will randomize patients to one of two arms. One arm will       fixate the ventricular pacemaker lead to the HIS bundle area while the other arm will have       the leads fixed into the left bundle area. The pacemaker wires will be connected in       accordance with randomization group. The day after the procedure, a chest x-ray, EKG and       pacemaker evaluation will be performed. An echocardiogram will be obtained at 3 months post       procedure. At 6 and 12 months post procedure, EKG rhythm strips will be obtained from       patients' standard of care remote pacemaker monitoring systems.
Sinus node dysfunction is highly prevalent among patients with congenital heart disease,       manifesting as resting bradycardia or chronotropic incompetence. As children and adults with       congenital heart disease are now expected to have increasing life-expectancy; with well over       1 million adult patients currently living in North America,1 issues such as mental health,       acquired comorbidities and their impact on overall cardiovascular health have assumed       increased scrutiny.        It is now understood that objective measures of aerobic capacity, such as peak VO2, peak       VE/VCO2, and heart rate reserve predict all-cause mortality for adult patients with       congenital heart disease. As the chronotropic response during exercise is a key determinant       of aerobic capacity, improvement in sensor-based technology for heart rate support is       expected to have a significant impact on functional capacity and longevity in this       population. Some forms of congenital heart disease, such as single ventricle physiology after       the Fontan population are especially likely to benefit, as cardiac output is determined       almost exclusively by heart rate during exertion due to limited ability to augment cardiac       stroke volume.2        It is also becoming increasingly clear that sedentary behaviors are highly relevant to       overall cardiovascular health in the general adult population. Adult patients with congenital       heart disease are at especially high risk for sedentary behavior as a result of 1) chronic       restriction for physical activities based on ill-founded medical advice, 2) chronotropic       incompetence resulting from prior surgical palliations and hemodynamic stressors, and 3)       overestimation of physical activity.        The Specific Aims of this protocol are:        Primary Aim: To determine the performance of CLS for CHD patients after both transvenous and       epicardial pacemaker implantation        Hypothesis: CLS after either pacemaker implantation strategy will result in equivalent       improvements in autonomic control of chronotropic response as compared to standard sensor       based rate modulation        Primary outcome: Objective change in autonomic modulation of heart rate while randomized to       CLS pacing with mental stress and ANSAR testing        Secondary outcomes: Increase in aerobic capacity, non-sedentary behavior, and quality of life       while randomized to CLS pacing        This will be a single-blind (blinded subjects) randomized cross-over study, in which each       patient will receive treatment A (CLS-on or CLS-off) for 3 months followed by treatment B       (CLS-off or CLS-on).        Inclusion criteria:          -  Congenital heart disease             • Simple, moderate, or complex congenital heart disease          -  Adolescent or adult age group (age >14 and <65 years)          -  Significant sinus node dysfunction               -  Atrial pacing percentage >70%11               -  Intrinsic dysfunction resulting from congenital lesion or cardiac surgery               -  Secondary sinus node dysfunction due to antiarrhythmic drug therapy          -  Existing, fully functional pacemaker or ICD with CLS capability          -  Epicardial or transvenous route of pacemaker implantation        Exclusion criteria:          -  Unable to complete cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET)          -  Contraindication to CPET          -  Decreased mental capacity or known psychiatric disorder          -  Congestive heart failure, NYHA cass IV          -  Total atrial tachyarrhythmia burden >20%        5.0 Enrollment/Randomization        Patient Enrollment: The treating physician will identify potential subjects with a previously       implanted pacemaker and present a brief overview of the study; if the subject is interested,       the study will be described in detail. Informed consent will be obtained by the investigator       after discussing the study, including the voluntary nature of participation and notification       the subject can withdraw at any time. Ample time for questions and answers will be allowed.       The investigator will give the subject and his/her legal guardian the opportunity to take the       consent home to think about it more, with the option to call or meet with the investigator to       ask additional questions. If the subject and/or his/her parent/legal guardian agree to       participate, the investigator will ask them to sign a written, informed consent and assent. A       copy of the assent and consent will be given to the subject and/or his/her parent/legal       guardian.        Randomization Procedure: This will be a single-blind placebo-controlled randomized crossover       study with 2 treatments: CLS-on versus CLS-off (accelerometer only). Each enrolled patient       will receive both treatments for 3 months. The order of treatments will be randomized 1:1.        6.0 Study Procedures        All patients enrolled in the study will undergo the following baseline assessment and data       collection:          -  Demographics (age, gender, race/ethnicity)          -  Review of data confirming the presence of sinus node dysfunction with chronotropic            incompetence (prior exercise stress test and/or Holter monitor results)          -  Review of clinical history, including age at diagnosis, congenital diagnosis, surgical            history, and cardiac device implant procedure          -  Antiarrhythmic drugs prescribed and the respective dosages          -  Prior ECG and echocardiography and advanced imaging reports        Randomization        There will be a 50:50 randomization, with half the subjects randomized to CLS-on then       CLS-off, and half randomized to CLS-off then CLS-on.        Subjects previously receiving rate-responsive pacing with CLS that are randomly selected to       CLS-on will continue with the identical programmed parameters. For subjects not previously       receiving rate-responsive pacing with CLS that are randomly selected to CLS-on nominal       programming will be utilized with a base rate of 60 beats per minute.        Subjects will then initiate treatment A (CLS-on or CLS-off) in a blinded fashion. During the       testing period, subjects will be tracked with the implanted device accelerometer to quantify       physical activity. At 3 months, all subjects will undergo testing as noted below.          -  24 hour Holter monitoring with spectral analysis          -  Cycle-ergometer stress with cardiopulmonary gas exchange analysis          -  Free form activities with cardiopulmonary gas exchange analysis (staircase walking,            sweeping, suitcase lifting with right and left arms, etc.)          -  ANSAR testing (hand grip, Valsalva, deep breathing, and orthostatic challenge)          -  Mental stress test with continuous electrocardiographic recording          -  Quality of life questionnaire (SF-36/Somerville index)        After 3 months of treatment A, subjects will be reprogrammed to treatment B. Tracking of       physical activity with the device accelerometer will continue during this period. After 3       months of treatment B, repeat testing will be repeated as described above. At the conclusion       of the study, patients will be asked which pacing mode is preferred.        Patients will be followed during both treatment phases per usual clinical routine. Patients       who experience significant symptoms (extreme fatigue, debilitating palpitations, or other       clinically relevant symptoms) will be evaluated by their treating physician. Subjects that       have any adverse events during treatment A will discontinue treatment A and immediately       crossover to treatment B. Subjects with events during treatment B will be removed from the       study and unblinded. Further treatment will be determined by the treating physician.
This is a Canadian multicenter randomized controlled trial to assess remote patient       management. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion, stratified by pacemaker dependence       and by center to either remote patient management of standard of care.        Remote patient management (intervention group):          -  Patients will be followed by remote monitoring only. Transmissions will occur at six            monthly intervals, with no in-clinic visits. If there is an actionable event on the            remote transmission, patients will be seen at their closest community device clinic. The            proposed intervention would eliminate any routine visits.          -  Newly implanted pacemaker patients will be seen after the initial implant at the hub            site, within 48 hours and then within 3 months to optimize programming for subsequent RM            visits. Thereafter, all follow-up will occur through remote monitoring every six months.            Unscheduled remote transmissions may also occur. Using a combination of remote            monitoring, and novel technology, VIRTUES, patients will be managed outside of the            clinic.          -  Patients will be provided with real-time knowledge of success of their remote            transmission and the status of the remote through a web-based portal called VIRTUES.          -  Virtual patient record - all patient information in the intervention arm will be            contained within an information cloud that will be accessible by patients; access to            their own data may be granted by the patient themselves to permit delivery of care            remotely, and to permit after hours follow up to be performed by the on call personnel.        Standard of care (comparison group):        The standard arm will be required to have in-clinic visits at yearly intervals. These       patients would not have access to the virtual patient cloud or to remote monitoring.        Pacemaker programming: All patients in both arms will undergo programming as per the ASSERT       II protocol (previously published) to optimize pacemaker parameters and detection of atrial       and ventricular high rate episodes.
nan
The study design is a Pilot Study to confirm the safety of the uterine inhibitor/pacemaker       and measure its effect on women experiencing preterm labor.        A total of 10 (ten) patients will be enrolled in this pilot study to confirm the methodology       and safety of the device. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion       criteria will be recruited for the study.        The study device (EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker) has been classified by FDA as an       Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) number G080036, Class A device. The EI/uterine       inhibitor/pacemaker device is FDA cleared for research of the prevention of the prevention of       the human contractions of preterm birth.        This proposal is for an initial prospective FDA approved pilot study. After FDA evaluation of       the pilot study findings and approval, the pilot study may lead eventually to a prospective       randomized controlled clinical study.        Only adult women who are experiencing uterine contractions due to the birthing process are       eligible.        Study patients will be informed about the purpose of the EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker       device and give informed consent prior to its use. The device will be used for only 20       minutes, preceded and followed by a 20 minute control period.        During the birthing process recordings of the uterine contractions will be recorded.       Comparison will be made of these uterine contraction records pre and post use use of the       EI/uterine inhibitor/pacemaker device. The uterine contraction tracings will be compared and       analyzed for differences in the frequency of contractions.        The patients will also be told how to express the strength of any of their subjective pain in       a manner that can be documented in a questionnaire. Study patients will also have their       record of the type and amount of pain medication they have received noted on their patient       log forms.        RISK:        Previous human and animal studies indicate minimal risk to either baby or mother. Human       studies showed no effect on the fetal or maternal heart rate. Real-time monitoring of the       fetal and maternal heart rate during the study will protect against there potential risks.        BENEFIT:        Reducing the frequency of preterm uterine contractions is a first step to preventing preterm       birth,but the proposed investigation is not, itself, expected to prevent any preterm births.       However, the investigation could have great benefit to future mothers and their babies.
nan
Evaluation of severe symptom control of nausea, vomiting, postprandial fullness, early       satiety, bloating and discomfort related to drug refractory gastroparesis present as a GI       complication in diabetic patients. External gastric pacemaker system will be placed at the       same time of implantation of Enterra (internal gastric stimulator-permanent device) to assess       symptoms, quality of life improvement and investigate the changes in gastric emptying time in       diabetic gastroparesis.
nan
nan
Electrical stimulation in the apex of the right ventricle ( ventricular pacing) usually       improves the heart function of patients with a pacemaker and can even be life-saving.       However, evidence is accumulating that ventricular pacing may also have undesired long-term       cardiac effects. Therefore, it makes sense to limit ventricular pacing to the absolute       required minimum. The functionality RVP (Refined Ventricular Pacing) in the C-series 2nd       generation pacemakers of Vitatron B.V. Arnhem, the Netherlands is designed to reduce       ventricular pacing.        After implantation of the Vitatron C50 D model C50A2 (pacemaker) or Vitatron C60 DR model       C60A2 (pacemaker) and a 4-6 weeks stabilization period, proper functioning of pacemaker and       leads (stimulation- and sensing parameters) is checked. The pacemakers will be programmed       according to predefined settings.        In the following 4-weeks Baseline period diagnostic data (atrial fibrillation burden and       percentage of ventricular pacing (% VP)) are collected in the pacemaker memory. Based on       these data, patients will be excluded from further participation (patients with more than 15%       atrial fibrillation) or subdivided into three groups: (a) < 30% VP (30- VP group), (b) >30%       VP, Sick Sinus Syndrome and normal conductivity (SSS group), (c) >30% VP, 1st or 2nd degree       AV block. Patients in these three groups will be treated for 4 weeks alternatively with the       RVP functionality switched ON or OFF. The order will be determined by randomization. At the       end of these two cross-over periods the % VP and the judgment of the patients of the last       period will be assessed. Adverse events will be recorded from the moment of study enrolment.
This Registry is an investigator initiated project designed to follow in the footsteps of the       MagnaSafe Registry. MagaSafe was initiated to determine the risks of performing MRI for       patients with pacemakers and Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators (ICDs). The latter is       closed to new enrollments as of April 2014; however, there is still a need to accumulate data       on these devices. There is also a significant clinical need, in that patients who are insured       by CMS are currently excluded from having MRI scans if they have a pacemaker or ICD. The only       option available to them is to undergo removal of their entire system, have the MRI scan, and       then have a new system implanted. This is impossible for many patients who are "pacemaker       dependent". It also exposes the patient to a well-known risk of complication from the       removal/extraction process as well as the re-implant procedure. This must be contrasted to       the negligible risk of having an MRI scan with the device in place (assuming proper       precautions are taken), based on MagaSafe data as well as a large body of supporting       literature.        Magnetic resonance is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of many diseases of       the brain, spinal cord, and musculoskeletal system. For some disease states, no acceptable       alternative diagnostic imaging method is available. MRI is not only a superior imaging and       diagnostic modality for many disorders, but also does not expose patients to ionizing       radiation as does CT. The number of patients living with permanent pacemakers or ICDs is well       into the millions (some estimates are up to 4 million in the US), and continues to increase.       Likewise, the use of MRI continues to rise annually in all patient groups, however, as people       advance in age, they are the most likely to need an MRI scan. As the device population is       disproportionally weighted towards the older population, it is exactly this group that has       the greatest need for MRI scans, yet may be denied.        As noted in the MagnaSafe information, "To provide optimal care to the increasing number of       patients with an implanted cardiac device, health care professionals must have the capability       to perform MR imaging with minimal risk and full knowledge of the possible complications."       This registry recreates the protocol, safety monitoring and follow up in a manner very       similar to other registries. The intent is to provide not only data that will hopefully       continue to support the use of MRI scanning in device patients, but to allow this essential       imaging technique to be available to patients without the need to expose them to 2 otherwise       unnecessary procedures of removal and replacement of the implanted device.        This is a physician and institutional based registry that will start with New York University       Langone Medical Center as collaboration between the Division of Cardiology (Electrophysiology       Section) and the Department of Radiology (MRI imaging section). It is anticipated that       additional sites may join in the registry over time, FDA permitting. The protocol is based on       the widely published "Hopkins protocol" as attached to this submission. Several thousand       patients have safely been scanned using this technique which emphasizes patient safety.       Patients are monitored by experienced device personnel (ACLS certified) for vital signs       (non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximeter, and cardiac rhythm monitor (EKG))       while performing scans on patients with implanted devices. Scans are done at a major medical       center equipped to manage any device or heart rhythm based complication should one occur.       Only patients for whom no other imaging technique will provide adequate information are       allowed to be scanned. The latter must be attested to by the physician who requires the       information, and agreed upon by the electrophysiologist and the radiologist. IRB approval and       a written investigator agreement will be required of any centers that may eventually       participate in this registry.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate different types of leads (wires) that are connected       to the pacemaker (an implanted device which assists enrolled subject's heart function) to       understand how the shape and motion of the previously implanted lead changes in the body.
nan
Method:        The following covariates will be reported.        Date of diagnosis of AV-block:        The date of diagnosis is defined as the day the physician diagnoses the AV-block. E.g. if the       patient has a Holter monitoring performed, the date of diagnosis is the dag the monitoring is       reviewed.        Reported as: Day-month-year        Comorbidity at day of first pacemaker implant:        Registered as one or more of the following:          1. Diabetes          2. Hypertension          3. Hypercholesterolemia          4. Heart failure          5. Atrial fibrillation or flutter          6. Ischemic heart disease          7. Sarcoidosis          8. Connecting tissue disorder          9. Other        Smoking status at day of first pacemaker implant:        Registered as: Current, former, never        Device selected at first pacemaker implant:        Registered as: DDD, CTR, etcetera        Genetic investigation:        Is there performed genetic investigation due to the finding of AV-block? Investigation must       be initiated maximum 4 weeks after day of first pacemaker implant.        Registered as: y/n.        Date of first pacemaker implant:        Registered as: Day-month-year        Implant sight        ECG 12 description:        ECG 12 must be taken maximum one week before day of first pacemaker implant Registered as:       Bpm., RBBB y/n, LBBB y/n, PR in msec, QRS in msec, QT in msec, QTc in msec (Frederica)        Implant indication:        Registered as one of following:          1. First-degree atrioventricular block with symptoms          2. Mobitz type 1 with symptoms          3. Mobitz type 2          4. Advanced second-degree atrioventricular block          5. Third-degree atrioventricular block          6. Unknown The most malignant is chosen and it is reported if it is intermittent or            persistent.        Symptoms:        Registered as one or more of following:          1. Dyspnoea          2. Fatigue          3. Malaise          4. Dizziness          5. Syncope          6. Angina          7. Cardiac arrest          8. No symptoms        Echocardiography:        Performed maximum two weeks before day of first pacemaker implant The reported values are       what the echocardiographer describes.        Registered as:        LVEF in % (values over 60% is reported as >60 %) Hypertrophy of LV y/n Dilatation of LV y/n       Dilatation of LA y/n Valvular disease/artificial valve y/n        Coronary angiography:        At day of first pacemaker implant +/- 4 weeks        Registered as:        Normal y/n Significantly disease on LAD y/n Significantly disease on RCA y/n Significantly       disease on CX y/n Significantly disease = leading to CABG, PCI or antithrombotic treatment
Objective: The goal of this trial is to test the impact of individualized blended sensor       optimization on chronotropic response, compared with accelerometer use alone, in patients       with chronotropic incompetence who are planned to undergo permanent pacemaker (PPM)       implantation.        Study Population: The study population will consist of patients who suffer from the heart's       inability to increase its heart rate according to increased physical activity or demand       (chronotropic incompetence). These patients are planned to undergo permanent pacemaker (PPM)       implantation.        PRIMARY ENDPOINT: Improvement in chronotropic competence as defined as an increase in       age-predicted maximum heart rate (APMHR) which is defined as 220 beats per minute (bpm) minus       patient's age in years. Age-predicted heart rate reserve (APMHR) defined as APMHR minus       patient's heart rate at rest. Observe the maximal heart rate during exercise test with       decrease in oxygen consumption at each stage and also at peak effort.        SECONDARY ENDPOINT:          1. Quality of life.          2. Procedural safety as defined by the number of complications within 1week associated with            the procedure.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
A single-center, prospective, randomized, post-market study of patients undergoing       implantation of a pacemaker, ICD, or S-ICD with or without CanGaroo using the same hydration       solution. Twenty patients, randomized 1:1 for 10 in the treatment group and 10 in the control       group, shall be enrolled. Follow-up visits include post-op and 3-months following the       implantation procedure.
Number of Pacemakers (PM) and Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICD) is rapidly       growing due to enlarged indications. This fact causes an exponential increase in scheduled       in-hospital follow-ups. For this reason, all the companies that produce PM and ICD have       released systems that allow remote monitoring and follow-up of cardiac devices (both PM and       ICD) and U.S. guidelines have already been changed, in order to suggest remote follow-up of       these devices at appropriated intervals.        Nevertheless, informations on actions taken during scheduled in-hospital follow-up are       incomplete.        ATHENS study has been designed to answer to 3 questions:          1. How often, during a scheduled in hospital follow-up physicians "change" something ?            (device programming; drug therapy; scheduled device replacement ...)          2. The "rate of change" is different is the follow-up is required pby the general            practitioner who normally takes care of the patients or by the patient itself?          3. Change are more frequent during PM or during ICD follow-up or during cardiac            resynchronization therapy devices?
Permanent pacemaker implantation is a widely recognized clinical event associated with TAVI       becoming evident within a few days after the procedure.        While a number of registries have documented the rates of PPI with different valves, much       less evidence has been provided for 1) patient based characteristics (e.g. RBBB etc.)       affecting the likelihood of PPI and for 2) procedural variables (e.g. implantation depth,       valve size etc.) that should be considered to perform an as safe and minimal invasive       procedure as possible.        Prior research To date there are 7 published reports on pacemaker rates and predictors       associated with the use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV (see Table). These studies suggest that       the need for pacemaker implantation in single centers ranges between 14.4 and 20.4% derived       from patient numbers between 131 and 335. These analyses resulted in the identification of       pre-existing conduction disturbance / aortic valve calcification as patient related and       implantation depth /oversizing as procedure related variables associated with Edwards SAPIEN       3 THV TAVI. Furthermore a scoring algorithm for patient related factors has been proposed       from a dataset of 240 patients to predict the likelihood of PPI after THV .        Limitations of prior research Current evidence though is limited by patient numbers versus       event rates (with a max. of 62 PPI considered in any of the available datasets) resulting in       a limited power in multivariable analyses, the single center design of these ventures, the       lack of a consistent definition of variables potentially associated and the unexplained       differences in the number and type of variables identified.        Aims For this reason the investigators consider it necessary to 1) to retrospectively pool       data from all of these 7 datasets to arrive at a more comprehensive picture of patient       related variables (retrospective part I), to 2) assess procedural variables in a prospective       multicenter registry (prospective part II) and 3) to potentially validate the identified       variables in a future prospective cohort.
Due to anti-arrhythmic pharmacological drugs failure to suppress atrial fibrillation (AF),       interest towards preventive pacing treatments is increasing. The importance of this option in       the panoply of the preventive tools is fully justified, only by considering the       insufficiency, the complexity, or the poor reproducibility of the other non-pharmaceutical       approaches.        Preventive pacing therapies rely on their potential effect on different onset modalities       emphasized by previous studies, and more generally by stabilizing atrial tissue when       potential triggers are appearing.        On top of that, cardiac stimulator can deliver these therapies when identifying these       triggers but also can offer incomparable diagnostic tools, in terms of sensitivity,       specificity and continuity in the monitoring.        Four preventive pacing therapies have already been evaluated, the objective of this study is       to show the clinical benefit brought by the new features of the Selection 9000 / Vitatron T70       DR.
nan
The study population consists of pacemaker-free patients that are 18 years or older       undergoing a TAVI with new onset left bundle branch block. Patient consent is required.        Patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the       following two groups:        Group 1: electrophysiology-based algorithmic approach        Group 2: standard clinical follow-up with transcutaneous cardiac monitoring.
The combination of congestive heart failure and atrial fibrillation is a common co morbidity,       although the exact prevalence of AF in the heart failure population is still unclear. Recent       studies show a prevalence of AF ranging from about 10% to 50%, although the type of AF       observed and investigated in these studies is not always clearly described.        A number of mechanisms attributed to congestive heart failure may contribute to the       development of AF Experimental congestive heart failure promotes sustained AF by ionic       remodeling and increased interstitial fibrosis. In contrast to tachycardia-mediated AF, in       congestive heart failure no shortening of atrial refractoriness occurs. Atrial tissue stress       caused by congestive heart failure may also contribute to promotion of AF by inducing       triggered activity, affecting atrial refractoriness properties or resulting in increased       tissue mass supporting re-entry [31]. Existence of these mechanisms suggests that treatment       of congestive heart failure may also influence the development and progression of AF in these       patients. Conversion of chronic AF has been observed in patients with congestive heart       failure treated with biventricular pacing Ventricular ionic remodeling likely underlies the       increased risk for proarrhythmia in heart failure patients exposed to antiarrhythmic drugs,       prolonging the action potential duration , which therefore should be avoided in patients with       congestive heart failure.        The independent prognostic significance of AF in heart failure patients is still not       completely clear. Results from some recent studies suggest no independent prognostic       significance of AF in heart failure patients Result from other large studies on congestive       heart failure suggest an independent prognostic effect of AF in patients with AF and       congestive heart failure, associated with an increased risk for pump failure death and       all-cause mortality a significantly reduced 1-year survival and a higher mortality among       heart failure patients who developed AF A recent review with regard to the mortality in       studies on congestive heart failure suggests that concomitant AF does not have an additional       effect on the mortality in patients with severe heart failure, but does increase the       mortality in the setting of mild-to-moderate heart failure This observation may be attributed       to the fact that the atrial contribution to left ventricular filling is limited in patients       with severe diastolic dysfunction, whereas the atrial contribution may still be of       hemodynamic importance in mild-to-moderate heart failure
Kristensen et al. reported that AAIR pacing reduces atrial fibrillation (AF) development       compared to DDDR pacing in sinus node disfunction patients.        Several authors have shown that, in patients with intact AV conduction, unnecessary chronic       RV pacing can cause detrimental effects such as AF, left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and       congestive heart failure. These findings arose the hypothesis that the non-physiologic nature       of ventricular pacing may result in electrophysiological and LV remodeling changes that have       potentially deleterious long-term effects.        The MVP mode, present in the Medtronic pacemaker EnRhythm, provides atrial based pacing with       ventricular backup. It operates in true AAI(R) mode, it provides ventricular backup in case       of a single conduction loss and converts to DDD(R) mode in case of persistent loss of AV       conduction.        Aim of this study is to test the impact of the MVP pacing mode and atrial preventive and       antitachycardia pacing therapies on the reduction of a composite clinical outcome composed by       any death, permanent AF, cardiovascular hospitalizations.
Background: Dual-chamber pacemaker therapy has become the mainstay for treating symptomatic       sick sinus syndrome (SSS). This approach aims to results in a physiologic conduction pattern,       while protecting against atrioventricular conduction anomalies. Smaller studies and subgroup       analyses of larger trials suggest that ventricular stimulation associated with this treatment       has adverse effects, especially an increased incidence of atrial fibrillation and heart       failure.        Methods: In MODEST, a study on patients with sick sinus syndrome who have an indication for       pacing therapy, atrial pacing (AAI) is compared with dual-chamber pacing (DDD) combined with       a novel algorithm developed to lower the number of ventricularly paced beats. The study aims       to assess the impact of ventricular pacing on the development of atrial arrhythmias and to       test the hypothesis that DDD pacing using the algorithm is associated with a higher rate of       atrial arrhythmias as atrial pacing. Included will be patients with SSS and no high degree AV       node disease except for patients with first-degree AV block ≤300ms. Patients will be followed       stratified by their Wenckebach point (≥ 120 bpm versus < 120 bpm).        Conclusion: MODEST is a large, prospective, randomized, multicenter trial aiming to compare a       novel type of dual-chamber pacing approach (that includes an algorithm designed to lower the       number of ventricularly paced beats) with pure atrial pacing, assessing the impact on the       incidence of atrial arrhythmias in patients with sick sinus syndrome.
nan
This study is a single-center, randomized, clinical trial. Its purpose is the comparison of       the ultrasound-guided axillary venous access technique versus the cephalic venous access       using the cut-down technique in cardiac device implantation procedures. Prerequisite for       starting patients' recruitment is that the operators have undergone a training phase in       ultrasound-guided axillary vein puncture in the Interventional Radiology Laboratory and have       completed at least 30 procedures. A GE V-scan device with a special linear transducer for       vessel examination will be utilized for the ultrasound guidance. Micropuncture technique will       be performed for venous access.        Eligibility criteria:        Inclusion criteria          -  Age ≥ 18 years          -  Indication for single- or dual-chamber pacemaker of defibrillator implantation          -  Written informed consent Exclusion criteria          -  Indication for biventricular pacemaker or defibrillator          -  Upgrade in pacing or defibrillation system        After the operators' training phase, candidates for pacemaker or defibrillator (single- or       dual-chamber) implantation who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned with       1:1 allocation to one of the Groups:        A. ultrasound-guided axillary venous access B. cephalic venous access through the cut-down       technique In case of access failure in Group A, the alternative puncture options are through       the cephalic vein, the axillary vein with angiography guidance, the axillary vein without       angiography guidance or the subclavian vein. In case of access failure in Group B which       includes the insertion of only one lead wire or none, the alternative puncture options are       through the axillary vein with angiography, the axillary vein without angiopraghy or the       subclavian vein.        Data of the study participants that will be recorded include: demographics, Body Mass Index       (BMI), cardiovascular risk factors, comorbidities, indication for cardiac device       implantation, type of device (pacemaker/defibrillator, single-chamber/dual-chamber), side of       implantation (right, left), type of pocket (subcutaneous, submuscular).        Regarding NOAC administration, patients will undergo the implantation procedure after       cessation of rivaroxaban for at least 20 hours before the procedure and apixaban or       dabigatran for at least 16 hours before the procedure. Longer periods of cessation will be       applied in patients with renal dysfunction. In patients on treatment with acenocoumarol or       warfarin, procedures will be performed without discontinuation of the drugs with target       INR=2.        Regarding anticoagulation management in patients with mechanical valves the following       anticoagulation management plan will be applied: i) in patients with metallic aortic valve,       no discontinuation of anticoagulation with target INR=2 and ii) in patients with metallic       mitral valve, no discontinuation of anticoagulation, with target INR<3-4.        The study hypothesis is that ultrasound-guided axillary venous access will lead to a higher       rate of successful implantation procedures compared to cephalic vein access through the       cut-down technique.        Based on available research data and pilot data, the hypothesis is that the success rate in       ultrasound-guided axillary venous access group will be 90% compared to 65% in the cephalic       venous access group. A sample size of 57 patients in each group is expected to offer       statistic power of 90% (a=0.05, two-tailed) to the aforementioned result.        The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the University Hospital of Patras. All       candidates will participate after written informed consent.
SUBJECTS Forty Participants, who fufil the entry criteria, will be selected. These       Participants will be recruited from Cardiomyopathy clinics run at two sites. These are the       Cardiomyopathy Clinics at the Heart Hospital, University College London, and from the Queen       Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.        CONSENT Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants.        CLINICAL ASSESSMENT        A History will be taken and a Clinical Examination will be carried out. A validated Quality       of life questionaire will be completed ( Minnesota Living with Heart Failure).        Maximal Cardiopulmonary exercise testing will be performed on a treadmill, with breath by       breath respiratory gas sampling, using a face mask.        A 12 lead ECG will be obtained. 48hr Ambulatory Heart Rhythm Monitoring        CARDIAC ULTRASOUND SCAN ASSESSMENT        To assess the function of the Heart during its contraction and filling phases, including the       degree of incoordination of the Heart muscle.        PACEMAKER IMPLANTATION        A pacemaker capable of Biventricular pacing will be implanted, using a standard established       technique at one of three sites ( The Heart Hospital London, St Peters Hospital Chertsey, or       Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham ).        24hr POST PACEMAKER IMPLANT. Assessment of mechanical dyssynchrony will be made using       Ultrasound techniques which will include 2D/ M mode Echocardiography, Doppler studies, and       Tissue doppler imaging. This assessment will be made with the Pacemaker off, and in Left and       Right heart pacing mode.        HAEMODYNAMIC STUDIES        These will be carried out approximately two weeks following pacemaker implantation.        The test will involve Nuclear Heart Scans (Gated Equilibrium Radionuclide Ventriculography)       and Acute Volume Unloading of the right and left heart chambers.        This will be carried out at the University Of Birmingham, Department of Cardiovascular       Sciences We shall apply these techniques while the heart is paced in four different modes.        The nuclear heart scan is a method by which we can measure the volume of the left heart       chamber. The study will involve the placement of small needle into a vein of the patients       forearm. Through this we will inject a primer which will make participants red blood cells       very sticky. After twenty minutes we will take a blood sample from the same needle. This       sample of blood will be mixed with a radioactive tracer. The tracer will be re-injected       through the same needle into the participants' vein. This tracer will allow us to measure the       amount of blood inside the chambers of the participants' heart with a special camera, a gamma       camera. The pictures will be taken with the participants lying on a bed throughout.        The bed we will ask participants to lie on is called a Lower Body Negative Pressure Bed. When       lying on this bed the participants' legs will be inside a see through plastic dome. A belt       will be placed around the participants' waist in order to create an airtight seal around       their legs. The bed is attached to a vacuum that allows us to create a low pressure       environment around participants' legs. This causes blood to pool inside the veins of       participants' legs. This leads to Acute Volume unloading of the right and left heart       chambers.        Once participants have received the injection of the radioactive tracer and are lying       comfortably in the Lower Body Negative Pressure Bed we will then take measurements of the       amount of blood in the participants' heart. We shall do this using the special camera.        We shall take measurements with the pacemaker in its four different pacemaker modes, and then       repeat these measurements but this time with a low pressure environment produced around       participants' legs in order to reduce the pressure on your heart. The test is painless apart       from mild discomfort from placing one needle at the beginning. The whole test will take       between one and one and half hours.        The method of administration has been performed safely by our team for a number of years now.        After a 1 hour break the Participants will do Exercise component of the Nuclear Heart Scan.       This component of the study will involve no further doses of radiation, and no new needles.        Participants will be asked to lie, semi-erect, on an exercise bed for up to 90 minutes. The       exercise will be in the form of a pedal bike. The pacemaker will be programmed into four       different modes of heart pacing. Whilst in each mode participants will be asked to exercise       to three different stages of exercise. Each stage will last 4 minutes. The levels of       difficulty will be worked out from a treadmill exercise test completed by the participants       prior to the pacemaker implantation. Participants will be allowed to rest between each stage       of exercise. If participants complete the whole study they will have cycled for a total of 48       minutes. During each stage 4ml of blood will be taken from the needle that will have been       placed in a vein during the earlier part of the study.        During each stage of exercise an image of the heart will be taken with the gamma camera, as       done earlier in the study.        From these measurements we will be able to calculate the effect of the different pacing modes       on the ability of the heart to pump blood on exercise.        Participants are free to stop the exercise at any time they feel they cannot continue.        RANDOMISATION AND FOLLOW UP. Following pacemaker implant, pressure studies, and Ultrasound       assessment, participants will be randomized in a double blind fashion to have their pacemaker       programmed to either one of the following (1) Pacemaker Off mode, ( 2 ) Left and Right Heart       chamber pacemaker mode. The Participants will be paced in that specific mode for four months       before repeat Clinical and Cardiac Ultrasound assessments. The mode of pacing will then be       changed, and maintained for a further four months, before repeat Clinical and Ultrasound       assessment. The pacing mode will be randomly selected, but no pacing mode will be repeated in       any one participant. The participant and the member of the research team performing the       Clinical and Ultrasound assessment of the participant, shall be blinded to the pacemaker       mode.
nan
nan
Study Procedures        This is a retrospective review of data on patient characteristics (such as age, gender,       co-morbidities), procedure specifications and indications, and outcomes of lead extraction       done at OHSU.        Patients who have undergone either pacemaker or defibrillator lead extraction will have their       charts reviewed for the desired data, which will then be compiled into a database. All       procedures will be part of routine clinical care.        Data Analysis:        This is an observational registry study; there are no primary or secondary outcomes. Data       will be analyzed to determine patient and procedural characteristics, procedure indications,       complications and outcomes
Objective of the INFINITE MRI Study is to collect data on the ImageReady MR Conditional       Pacing System in subjects undergoing a magnetic resonance scan (MRI).        The ImageReady system has CE mark and enrolled patients will undergo MRI scan under the       labeled Conditions of Use. Subjects considered eligible for this studty are already implanted       with the system according to standard medical guidelines for PM implantation.        The study is aimed at providing confirmatory data of no impact of MRI on device function,       lead parameters and patient conditions. The study will collect standard device measurement       through device interrogation pre- and post- MRI scan. MRI scan in this study is a       non-clinically indicated procedure and is not planned for diagnostic purposes.        Data from this study will be used to support the evidence of clinical performance of the       ImageReady™ MR Conditional Pacing System following a MRI scan when used under the labeled       Conditions of Use, and may be used to support regulatory submissions for the approval of the       system where requested.        The study has no primary endpoint and is not hypothesis driven.
nan
In patients with sinus node dysfunction (SND), the use of AAI mode is rare. In paroxysmal       high-degree or complete atrio-ventricular (AV) block, paroxysmal vagally-mediated       bradycardia, single chamber atrial pacemakers are contraindicated although ventricular       support is only rarely needed. As a result, these patients are usually exposed to an       unnecessary high proportion of ventricular pacing due to the programming of the system to DDD       mode for preventive safety reasons. This drains the pulse generator battery, and more       importantly has long-term adverse effects on ventricular function in a subset of vulnerable       patients, leading to left ventricular (LV) asynchrony, mitral regurgitation and increased       left atrium (LA) size. The deleterious effects of right ventricular (RV) pacing, which       increased heart failure (HF) morbidity/mortality, atrial fibrillation (AF) and related       adverse events have been highlighted in several large clinical studies. Limiting RV pacing in       non-dependant patients is therefore desirable.        The Symphony DR 2550 cardiac pacemakers (SORIN Group, Montrouge, France) offer a new pacing       mode that automatically switches from AAI(R) mode to DDD(R) or DDI(R) in event of severe       atrioventricular conduction disorder, returning spontaneously to AAI(R) mode as soon as the       spontaneous AV conduction has resumed. This particular mode is called the AAIsafeR2(R).        The objective of this study is three-fold: to demonstrate that AAIsafeR2 mode (i) reduces the       percentage of ventricular pacing in patients with a spontaneous AV conduction and (ii)       prevents atrial arrhythmias by improving atrial hemodynamics and (iii) improves the long-term       hemodynamic status of implanted patients in comparison to the "standard" DDD mode, set with       long AV Delays (DDD Long AVD).        The scientific soundness lying in this study is a proposal of an optimal programming of       dual-chamber pacemakers (PM) with regard to the preservation of spontaneous AV conduction.        2 Study devices        Classification Name Manufacturer Name Cardiovascular permanent pacemaker pulse generator       SORIN Group Symphony ™ DR2550        3 Summary of study objectives        The aims of this study are to assess the clinical benefits resulting from AAIsafeR2 by       comparison with standard dual chamber programming (DDD) with a long AV Delay.        The benefits will be assessed by comparing the percentage of ventricular pacing, the       incidence of atrial arrhythmias, and the evolution of the hemodynamic status as observed       through echo parameter and ANP/BNP measurements.        The primary objectives of the study are:        to demonstrate the effectiveness of AAIsafeR2 to preserve natural AV conduction as compared       to DDD Long AVD. For this purpose, ventricular pacing ratio as retrieved from PM memory will       be assessed on a mid-term period (1 year) by inter-groups comparison of:          -  Mean V pacing (%)          -  Proportion of patients with a V pacing ratio < 1 %.        to demonstrate the effectiveness of AAIsafeR2 to reduce AF incidence on a long-term basis       (3-year follow-up) by analyzing in the randomized branches:          -  the cumulative time in AF (as documented by PM memory)          -  the total number of AF episodes (as documented by PM memory)          -  the number of patients who present a cumulative time in AF>30% of the follow-up period            (as documented by PM memory)          -  the proportion of patients who turned into persistent AF during the study.          -  the proportion of patients who turned into permanent AF during the study.        to compare the effects of AAISafeR2 vs. DDD Long AVD on LV function, mitral regurgitation and       LA dimensions on a long-term basis (3-year follow-up) by comparing:          -  LV ejection fraction (EF) and volumes          -  Left atrium dimensions          -  Mitral regurgitation severity as measured by standard echocardiographic methods.        The secondary objectives of this study are to report and compare the following in each       randomized arm of the study:        Total mortality CHF-related mortality and hospitalizations Evolution of systemic blood       pressures, as estimated by ANP/BNP measurements AF-related adverse events, such as       strokes/TIA's and cardioversions The evolution of cardiac asynchrony [inter-ventricular       (RV-LV) and intra-ventricular (4 segments), as assessed by TDI technics] The evolution of       conduction disturbances in patients presenting unknown or under estimated atrio-ventricular       blocks on a long-term basis (intra-group analysis). Stratification by pacing indications and       cardiopathies.
nan
Over 25 million people worldwide are affected by heart failure. In the United States alone,       nearly 7 million adults have heart failure with a prevalence of ~3% of adults over 18 years       old. Therapy is directed at the underlying cause of heart failure and stratified by ejection       fraction. In patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), standard       guideline-directed medical therapy consists, at minimum, of maximally tolerated beta blockade       and angiotension converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotension receptor blockade (ARB)       therapy. Additive therapies may include further neurohormonal blockade with spironolactone or       eplerenone, with symptomatic management anchoring on lifestyle modifications and diuretics.        Antiarrhythmic devices are commonly employed in HFrEF patients. Patients with ischemic heart       disease and an ejection fraction below 35% are recommended for internal cardiac       defibrillators (ICD) as primary prevention, and those who have experienced episodes of sudden       cardiac arrest or syncope related to ventricular arrhythmia are candidates for ICDs as       secondary prevention. Individuals with non-ischemic HFrEF are recommended for secondary       prevention ICD implantation.        Another device therapy is cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) used in HFrEF patients with       underlying delayed electromechanical conduction delay. With differences in regional       electrical propagation as with left bundle branch blocks or intraventricular conduction       delays, the left ventricular free wall and septum (left and right sides) contract in a       discoordinate manner, reducing overall pump efficiency and mechanoenergetic performance. CRT       employs pacing of the left ventricular lateral wall and right ventricular septum       simultaneously, recoordinating electromechanical activation to improve ventricular function.        The investigators previously showed that while CRT improves chamber-level mechanoenergetics,       it also results in profound molecular and myocyte changes that are often global in nature and       underlie functional improvement. In a dilated cardiomyopathy canine model (rapid pacing for 6       weeks), CRT improves myofilament function, ion channel regulation, beta-receptor signaling,       and mitochondrial function and energetics. Several of these features have been examined in       human endocardial biopsies following CRT supporting the appearance of these features in       patients.        Furthermore, in large-scale, randomized trials, CRT improved cardiovascular outcomes. The       MIRACLE trial randomized 453 patients to CRT with EF <35% and QRS >130 ms to CRT vs control       and found significant improvements in clinical endpoints of six minute walk distance,       functional class, quality of life, and ejection fraction. The COMPANION trial randomized       1,520 patients with advanced heart failure and intraventricular conduction delays to standard       medical therapy, CRT-P (pacemaker only), or CRT-D (defibrillator). In both CRT groups, there       were significant reductions in the primary endpoint of time to death or hospitalization, with       relative reductions of 34% and 40% respectively. The MADIT-CRT trial randomized 1,820       patients with ejection fraction <30% and QRS duration of >130 milliseconds with New York       Heart Association class I or II symptoms to CRT-D or ICD therapy alone. In the CRT-D group, a       significant reduction in the primary endpoint of death from any cause or nonfatal heart       failure event was observed. Interestingly, the Echo CRT trial randomized 809 patients with       ejection fraction <35%, QRS <130 milliseconds, and New York Heart Association class III or IV       heart failure with echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dyssynchrony to CRT vs dual       chamber pacemaker. Unlike MADIT-CRT, there was no significant differences in the primary       endpoint of death or first hospitalization for worsening heart failure between the groups       prompting the trial to terminate early, suggesting that the benefit from CRT is contingent       upon high baseline level of ventricular dyssynchrony. Based on MADIT-CRT and other       large-scale trials, CRT is now recommended as per the recent American College of       Cardiology/American Heart Association heart failure guidelines as Class I indication in       patients with (1) New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV symptoms despite optimal       heart failure therapy with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <35% and prolonged QRS       duration or (2) NYHA Class I, II, or III symptoms with LVEF <50% on optimal heart failure       therapy with expected high percentage of ventricular pacing.        Despite the success of CRT as additive therapy, it is limited to a subset of heart failure       patients with a wide QRS complex and evidence of mechanical dyssynchrony. The majority of       patients (~75%) with HFrEF have synchronous ventricular contraction with narrow QRS complexes       on surface ECGs and so do not qualify for CRT. However, the molecular/cellular biology       following CRT raised a provocative question: might purposely inducing dyssynchrony in heart       failure for a discrete period of time and then reversing it also confer similar benefits to       CRT? This notion of purposely applying a stimulus that if done for a prolonged period has       adverse impact but more short term and then reversed yields therapeutic benefit has an       analogy to ischemic pre-conditioning, where brief exposure to ischemia and then reperfusion       instills protective molecular changes to better handle subsequent prolonged ischemic injury.        To test this hypothesis, the investigators first tested the effects of pacemaker-induced       transient dyssynchrony (termed PITA) in a dilated cardiomyopathy canine model. After 2-weeks       of synchronous atrial tachypacing at 200 beats per minute to induce dilated cardiomyopathy,       dogs were exposed to PITA consisting of dyssynchronous (with respect to atrial contraction)       right ventricular pacing at the same rate from midnight to 6 AM each day, corresponding to       the period of least activity. Pacing was switched to rapid atrial pacing (same rate) for the       rest of the day: 6 AM to midnight. A control group of dogs received rapid atrial pacing only.       Indices of global left ventricular function and cellular/molecular changes were compared       between the groups and to controls without heart failure. The investigators found that intact       left ventricular chamber end diastolic and end systolic diameters were smaller and ejection       fraction greater in dogs receiving PITA. Left ventricular end diastolic pressure was       decreased in the PITA group versus HF controls. Left ventricular contractility also improved       in the PITA group, primarily with co-administered dobutamine to stimulate contractile       reserve. The latter ultimately achieved levels similar to those in healthy controls, so the       adrenergic response improvement was substantial. Thus, PITA attenuated adverse remodeling due       to synchronous HF in the intact heart.        At the myocyte level, PITA improved sarcomere shortening, peak calcium transient, myofilament       sarcomere function (peak myocyte force-calcium dependence), and beta adrenergic stimulated       response (both b1 and b2). Ultrastructurally, PITA preserved myofilament assembly and       integrity, and prevented the formation of low-force generating myofibrils. Interestingly, all       of these beneficial effects of PITA were only seen when a contiguous period of right       ventricular (RV) pacing was applied. When RV pacing was randomly distributed over a 24-hour       period, no significant mechanoenergetic or cellular/molecular differences were seen between       the treated and control HF groups.        To date, no study has investigated whether similar benefits of PITA are observed in humans       with HFrEF. PITA can be easily implemented in HFrEF patients with primary or secondary       prevention ICDs or pacemakers inserted to counter bradycardia. Not all pacemaker devices can       currently do this, but multiple Medtronic (Mounds View, MN) devices have what is called a       Sleep Function feature whereby the pacing rate can be automatically modified during       predefined sleep periods, generally lowering this rate so a slower intrinsic non-paced rate       occurs. While incorporated to help some patients who felt hearts beat when the patients       slept, the feature is in fact rarely used. However, the software has the capacity to be       inverted - where the "sleep period" is set to extend from 6 AM to midnight, and then the       daytime (faster backup pacing rate) occurs from midnight to 6 AM. The investigators can then       pace the RV at a rate that is ~10 bpm above the upper sinus rate observed during the normal       sleep hours in a given patient, assuring that there will be dyssynchronous contraction during       those hours. In the morning, the rate would fall to below sinus rate to enable normal       contraction (synchronous) to be restored.        Given the increasing incidence and prevalence of HFrEF with associated morbidity and       mortality, it is important to find additional avenues to intervene and provide beneficial       therapies in addition to established medical therapy. While synchronous contraction is a       sought-after goal for patients with HFrEF, PITA may be even better and provide an additional       device-based therapy to improve heart failure symptoms and overall trajectory in those who       already have cardiac defibrillators or meet indications for implantation. Thus, further       investigation of the efficacy and safety of these treatments in the HFrEF population without       known dyssynchrony is warranted.        This index pilot trial will test the feasibility, safety, and tolerability of PITA in dilated       cardiomyopathy patients with low pacing burden to ensure ventricular capture during RV pacing       and to enroll patients who otherwise do not meet criteria for CRT. If successful, this will       allow subsequent study on changes in left ventricular function.
Cardiac surgical patients sometimes require temporary pacing wires to optimize cardiac       function during weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), and/or to treat hemodynamically       significant brady-arrhythmias. The available patient series report that 8.6% to 23.9% of       patient undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or valve surgery require temporary       pacing at some time after CPB. The site of pacemaker wire placement seems to be a crucial       determinant of cardiac output. In non-surgical patients isolated right ventricular (RV)       pacing seems to induce electromechanical dyssynchrony of the RV and the left ventricle (LV).       A normal ventricle in sinus rhythm displays a simultaneous contraction of all segments of the       heart, so that regional minimal volume (i.e. maximal contraction) will occur at the same       time. Isolated RV pacing seems to result in a left bundle branch type electrical activation       sequence, with delayed contraction of some of the segments. The LV, but not the RV, seems to       negatively affected by this state of dyssynchrony, resulting in decreased cardiac output. In       surgical patients however, there is not such data available yet. Since isolated RV epicardial       wire placement is still widely practiced in cardiac surgery, and in our own institution, we       would like to study the effect of RV pacing on LV synchrony and LV output.        Again from studies in non-surgical patients receiving resynchronization therapy, we know that       real-time three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography is very useful to pick up subtle changes in       LV synchrony and thereby guide synchronization of ventricular contraction. However, to date       the usefulness of real-time 3D echocardiography to guide pacemaker therapy in cardiac surgery       is unknown. In the present feasibility study in cardiac surgical patients, we want to       investigate the acute effects of isolated RV pacing on LV synchrony, and LV output.
Background In patients with isolated SSS, who need pacemaker treatment, any pacemaker can be       used to treat the symptomatic bradycardia: a single chamber atrial (AAI) pacemaker, a single       chamber ventricular (VVI) pacemaker, or a dual chamber (DDD) pacemaker. In the USA and in       most European countries, DDD pacing is used in most cases. It is now known from the Danish       AAI/VVI trial, that AAI pacing is superior to VVI pacing, since VVI pacing is associated with       a higher mortality and a higher incidence of atrial fibrillation, thromboembolic       complications and heart failure. This confirms previous findings in observational studies.       Therefore, VVI pacing should no longer be used in patients with SSS.        The main argument for using DDD pacing is the concern, that the patients will develop       symptomatic atrioventricular (AV) block. In the Danish AAI/VVI trial, the risk of AV block       was approximately 0.6% per year, which is equivalent to the risk found in a larger meta       analysis. This is only a little higher that the risk of atrioventricular block in the       age-matched non-paced population. Implantation of a DDD pacemaker in all patients will       effectively prevent development of symptomatic bradycardia in the minority of patients who       develops AV block. However, the most important disadvantage during DDD pacing is the       stimulation (pacing) of the ventricles by the pacemaker a large part of the time, also in       patients without AV block. Pacing the right ventricle causes an asynchronous electrical       activation and mechanical contraction of the ventricles as compared with the normal       physiological contraction.        At present time, a randomised comparison of AAI and DDD pacing in patients with SSS has never       been conducted, and to our knowledge, such a trial is not planned anywhere else.        Since several of the patients with SSS suffer from chronotropic incompetence, pacemakers with       rate adaptive function are chosen for all patients included in the present trial.        All patients, that fulfils the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria and who       give written informed consent, are included into the study. For all other patients undergoing       primary pacemaker implantation in the study period, an exclusion data sheet is filled in       stating the reason for exclusion. A total of 1,900 patients are included into the study.        Prior to the pacemaker implantation patients are randomised by lot (envelope) to either AAIR       or DDDR pacing. The randomisation is performed after written informed consent has been       obtained from the patient. Randomisation will ensure that all centres will randomise an equal       number of patients into each treatment group.        Patients randomised to AAIR pacing will have a bipolar lead implanted in their right atrium       connected to a single chamber pacemaker with rate adaptive function. Patients randomised to       DDDR pacing will have two leads (one bipolar lead in their right atrium and a uni- or bipolar       lead in their right ventricle) connected to a DDDR pacemaker.        Out of hospital follow-up The patients must attend for out of hospital follow-up after 3       months and 12 months and then once every year.        Criteria for closing the study        The DANPACE study is stopped and results are analysed when all of the following three       criteria are fulfilled:          1. 1,900 patients have been randomised.          2. The last randomised patient has been followed for at least 1 year.          3. The mean follow-up for the whole study population is at least 5.5 years.
The Micra AV Registry is a global, prospective, observational, multi-site registry. Patients       enrolled in the Micra AV Registry will be prospectively followed for a minimum of 3 years       post-implant or until registry closure, patient death, patient exit from the registry (i.e.,       withdrawal of consent).        Enrolled patients will have scheduled follow-up visits at least annually or as prompted by       reportable adverse events; however, all Micra AV system follow-up patient visits are to be       reported. Therefore, if more frequent scheduled visits occur per a provider's routine       clinical care practice, those visits are reported. The total estimated registry duration is       4.5 years
Multipolar left ventricular leads are increasingly used in cardiac resynchronization therapy.       Lead dislodgment requiring re-intervention is rare. However, data on minor lead movements       which may affect pacing capabilities and application of new pacing algorithms is scarce. Aim       of the study is to characterize pacing thresholds of each of the implanted electrodes on       quadripolar leads in a short term follow-up.
Permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) causes beat-to-beat heart rate irregularity, which has       shown to decrease cardiac output. Observational data suggest that heart rate regularization       through atrioventricular (AV) node ablation and pacemaker implantation improves outcomes in       heart failure (HF) patients. However, no trials have been conducted to assess its potential       benefit in HF and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)>40%, a population in whom       treatment strategies effectively improving outcomes are scarce.        The goal of this trial is to assess the benefit of heart rate regularization through AV node       ablation and conduction system pacing (CSP) in patients with permanent AF and HF with       preserved or mildly reduced systolic function. The investigators hypothesize that heart rate       regularization added to physiological pacing - preventing the deleterious effect of right       apical pacing - reduces mortality, HF hospitalisations or worsening HF in these patients.
A prospective, randomized and patient-blinded trial. The objective was to compare an active       fixation left ventricular lead with quadripolar passive left ventricular leads. The left       ventricular segment with latest mechanical activation was identified as target segment by       radial strain speckle-tracking echocardiography.The leads were compared in order to identify       differences in the electrical performance, the ability to achieve a stable proximal position       in a coronary vein located concordant to target segment and clinical outcome. The clinical       outcomes were assessed by echocardiography, change in New York Heart Association (NYHA)       functional class and Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ). The patients       were followed up for 12 months.
Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPXT) has a long history in the evaluation and management       of cardiovascular diseases, particularly in patients with advanced heart failure.        Cardiovascular exercise testing is a safe, well-developed, and validated method for risk       stratification and objective documentation of exercise capacity in patients with severe heart       failure (1,2). Recent studies have also shown that exercise testing has prognostic power for       heart failure hospitalization and mortality (3,4), but limited published data are available       in a large group of advanced heart failure patients, such as those with cardiac       resynchronization therapy (CRT) and left ventricular assist devices (LVAD)        Advanced or suspected advanced heart failure. Typical patients screened for this study will       be patients who have been referred to the University of Minnesota for evaluation for advanced       heart failure options, such as cardiac transplant or mechanical circulatory support. This is       a somewhat heterogeneous population, but all have been diagnosed by referring physician as       having sufficiently severe heart failure to seek tertiary care. Most are anticipated to have       severely depressed ejection fraction (<30% and typically <20%), but patients with preserved       ejection fraction and either hypertrophy or restrictive cardiomyopathy will also be eligible.       Patients pulmonary hypertension, on any therapy (other than diuretics alone), are also felt       to be at high risk of developing right heart failure and may also be included. Patients who       have already undergone LVAD or cardiac transplant are also considered to have advanced heart       failure and are eligible to participate, regardless of the severity of their symptoms at the       time of enrollment.        Healthy volunteers may be included for comparison.        This is a non-randomized, observational investigation of sub-maximal exercise ventilation       parameters in patient diagnosed with, or suspected to have, advanced heart failure.        Duration of follow-up will be up to five years. Some subjects will undergo only one exercise       test. Patients who present with heart failure but subsequently undergo CRT implantation, LVAD       implantation, or cardiac transplant will be asked to repeat the submaximal exercise test. The       timing between any of these events is unpredictable, so the duration of follow-up cannot be       predicted. Subjects will be followed for change of status for up to 5 years. The total number       of tests that any one person could potentially have is 5 (baseline plus one after each       therapy), although we expect that most participants would not be asked to undergo more than 3       tests.        For patients without a device: Patients start at rest for 2 minutes and will wear a face mask       and breathing parameters are recorded using the SHAPE-HF system (SHAPE Medical St. Paul, MN)       that measures respiratory airflow and the constituent respiratory gases, oxygen and carbon       dioxide. The SHAPE-HF system will continue to monitor and the patient then will start walking       on a treadmill with a variable speed of 1-3 mph and a variable grade of 0-6%. The total       treadmill time will be no more than 10 minutes.        For patients with a device: patients will be at rest and the adjustments of their device will       be made by a study physician or device coordinator, done routinely in clinical practice. This       will take up to 15 minutes and during this time; participants will wear a face mask and       breathing parameters are recorded using the SHAPE-HF system (SHAPE Medical St. Paul, MN) that       measures respiratory airflow and the constituent respiratory gases, oxygen and carbon       dioxide. Device parameters will be returned to baseline settings following this part of the       test.        Sub-maximal exercise testing approximately 30 minutes in duration will be performed on a       treadmill at a slow and constant pace, the speed of the treadmill will range from 1-2 mph and       the grade will range from 0-2% depending on the patient's exercise tolerance. The exercise       will be split into two rounds of exercise up to 15 minutes each. Subjects may rest as long as       they would like between the two tests.        The first round, participants will wear a face mask and breathing parameters are recorded       using the SHAPE-HF system. (See section 13B for sample report).        In the second round, every two minutes, up to 15 minutes, participants will be asked to take       8 breaths using a breathing bag containing a standard mixture of gases (0.7% acetylene, 21%       oxygen, 9% Helium and the balance of nitrogen)-this gas mixture is routinely used in       pulmonary function laboratories to measure lung function and has the same amount of oxygen as       room air. Acetylene mass spectroscopy is then used to measure cardiac output noninvasively.        Neither the SHAPE-HF system, nor the methods of gas exchange during exercise are       investigational.        Participants who are treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy and/or ventricular assist       device may have minor adjustments made to their device parameters every 2 minutes during the       testing. The adjustments will be made by a study physician or device coordinator, as       mentioned before, done in routine practice. Device parameters will be returned to baseline       settings following the test.
The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) carries motor fibers that innervate both the abductor       (PCA, opener) muscle and adductor (closer) muscles of the vocal folds. Damage to the nerve       compromises both of these functions and arrests the vocal folds in a near-closed position. In       case of BVFP, voice tends to be functional but airway embarrassment is often severe enough to       warrant tracheostomy to relieve inspiratory stridor and dyspnea.        If spontaneous recovery from nerve injury does not occur within one year, it is likely the       patient will be chronically paralyzed. In such instances, long-term tracheostomy could be       considered. Unfortunately, permanent tracheostomy is known to have the complications of       tracheal stenosis, chronic infection, and psycho-social impairment. For this reason,       laryngeal surgery is offered to enlarge the airway and restore breathing through the mouth.       These procedures, such as arytenoidectomy and cordotomy, where a portion of the larynx is       surgically resected to enlarge the airway, also have inherent complications.        Although they represent the standard of care, they adversely affect voice and may compromise       airway protection during swallowing. Further, they cannot provide sufficient airway to permit       significant aerobic activity. The limitations associated with these current therapies have       prompted investigation into a more physiologic, dynamic approach to rehabilitation:       reanimation of the paralyzed PCA muscle by functional electrical stimulation (FES).       Stimulation would be applied to the PCA muscle during the inspiratory phase of respiration to       open the vocal folds. During noninspiratory phases, stimulation would cease and the vocal       folds would passively relax to the midline to allow for normal voice production and airway       protection in swallowing. Based on the research the investigators have conducted, the       investigators expect patients would benefit from bilateral pacing through implantation of the       neurostimulator by restoring normal ventilation, without negatively affecting the patient's       voice or swallowing ability.        The investigators are collecting data in this study to show that this procedure is an       effective means of a surgical approach for implantation of device with insertion and       anchoring of the electrode leads. Incidence of complications both intraoperatively and       postoperatively will also be collected and assessed. Any complications will be addressed       according to current standard practice under the supervision of the operating surgeon. The       device should produce an airway that will allow patients to breathe without a tracheostomy       tube in place. Patients will be monitored for adverse events and managed accordingly.
The treatments for people with apical HCM and symptoms are limited but include medicines. The       use of a pacemaker in this situation is an experimental treatment which has not yet been       fully explored. We believe symptoms are linked with abnormalities in blood flow through the       heart muscle at the tip / apex of the heart and wish to see if using a pacemaker can improve       such abnormalities. We want to test if this treatment works using a clinical trial to help us       decide whether this is a viable treatment option that may be offered to other patients with       the condition. The null hypothesis states that there will be no difference in blood flow       through the heart muscle with pacing. The alternative hypothesis states that there will be a       significant difference in blood flow through the heart muscle with pacing. This was chosen       based upon our current knowledge that abnormal blood flow in the heart muscle in apical HCM       is linked with abnormal squeeze at the apex / tip and symptoms. Echocardiography pilot data       has demonstrated a reduction in squeeze at the apex of the heart when using the pacemaker to       cause the heart muscle to contract in a different way.        Our alternative hypothesis therefore is that we can use the pacemaker to reduce squeeze at       the apex and improve blood flow through the heart muscle. This is a single centre,       prospective pilot study. Because data on acute changes in perfusion with pacing in apical HCM       are extremely limited, the most ethical methodology is to perform a two-phase study. Phase A       of the study assesses acute changes in blood flow through the heart muscle during different       pacemaker settings (active and back-up), looking for potential efficacy of the intervention.       Secondary outcomes of Phase A include recruitment rate and proportion of patients willing to       proceed to Phase B. Phase B of the study consists of entering those same patients into a       randomised double-blind cross-over 6-month follow-up pilot to collect baseline statistical       data and assess acceptability of study protocol to design a future study. Here, assessment of       further secondary outcomes will allow establishment of baseline statistical data for the       design of an outcomes-based clinical trial. Patients will only be entered into phase B of the       study if an improvement is seen in myocardial perfusion with pacing during phase A.
There are some clinical and experimental data to suggest that atrial overdrive pacing should       prevent AF. In our pacemaker population with tachy-brady syndrome, and in the PA3 study       population, we observed that AF frequently clusters and may recur early following an episode       of AF.        We are conducting a randomized trial of both prevention algorithms and antitachycardia pacing       (ATP) therapies for the treatment of atrial tachyarrhythmias and thereby prevention of AF       over the longterm.        Patients with a history of paroxysmal AF who received an AT501 pacemaker for the treatment of       bradycardia will be randomized to having both the prevention and therapy algorithms "ON",       both "OFF" or having only the therapy algorithms "ON". They will be followed every 3 months       for 1 year, then every 6 months for an 2 additional years. Recurrence and frequency of AF       will be determined over time based on data retrieved from the device at each follow-up visit.
The purpose of this prospective observational study is to investigate whether obtaining a His       Bundle recording from the subclavian vein using a stylet driven pacemaker lead and       commercially available sheath can be done in a quick and reliable manner. Included in the       study are patients undergoing permanent pacemaker implantation at Good Samaritan and Bethesda       North Hospitals. The main outcome is successful recording of a His bundle potential.       Secondary outcomes are the time necessary to record the His bundle and the measurement of the       pacing threshold.
nan
1. Abstract             Ferromagnetic Implants such as PPM's and ICD's are traditionally accepted as            contraindications to MRI due to safety concerns. The hypothesis is that these procedures            can be safely performed when appropriate safety precautions and vetting practices are            implemented.             This is a cohort study. 1000 patients with a clinical need for MRI will be included in            the study at OHSU. The type of device and leads will be ascertained and a safety            protocol will be strictly adhered to.          2. Background             It has been estimated that 50-75% of patients with implanted devices (pacemakers and            ICDs) will develop an indication for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination. Thus,            there are approximately 200,000 patients annually denied MRI scans because of the            presence of PPMs and ICDs in the United States. The current standard of care is not to            perform these scans, and instead to utilize other (inferior) imaging, and make clinical            decisions without the benefit of MRI imaging. This is the current standard of care of            OHSU, where only pacemaker patients who are not pacemaker dependent can undergo MRI            scans, per radiology policy. However, this leads to gaps in care for some patients who            would clearly benefit from an MRI scan. In some centers, it has been shown that when            proper precautions are taken, MRIs can be safely performed on patients with PPMs and            ICDs. The published experience from Johns Hopkins reports over 500 scans performed            without any adverse outcomes.(1) There are also several smaller studies documenting the            safe experience with MRI scanning in device patients (reviewed in (1), table 4)             The main concerns which have led to restrictions on MRIs in patients with cardiac rhythm            devices are the following:(2)               1. Force and torque-ferromagnetic devices in a magnetic field are subject to static                 and gradient magnetic field induced force and torque. However, the maximum force                 that a modern PPM or ICD generator would be subject to is 100g, far under what                 would be needed to dislodge a device.               2. Current induction-the gradient magnetic fields in the MRI scanner could induce                 current in conductors in the field. However, the maximum observed current in vitro                 has been less than 0.5mA, far less than what is required to capture myocardium.               3. Heating-Leads and other metallic devices can act as antennae, and may heat in the                 magnetic field, however, no heating greater than 0.5deg C were observed in vitro.               4. Inappropriate pacing/shock/inhibition of pacing-Pacemakers and ICDs have the                 possibility of receiving electromagnetic interference from the MRI and having this                 lead to inappropriate pacing, inhibition of pacing, ICD shocks, reprogramming, or                 loss of function.             While all of the concerns are real and have been reported in earlier generation devices,            with proper patient selection and monitoring during the scan, MRIs can be performed            safely on most device patients. Johns Hopkins has an experience of over 500 scans            without any adverse events.(1) The proposed protocol here follows exactly the Hopkins            protocol, and, indeed, the OHSU data will be combined with the Hopkins data for future            publications.             To review the most recent Johns Hopkins publication:(1) 555 MRI studies in 438 device            (PPM and ICD) patients were reported. All MRI scans were clinically indicated, and a            device clinician, familiar with device interrogation and programming, was physically            present for the entire duration of the scan. All patients were continuously monitored            via telemetry and pulse oximetry during the MRI. For pacemaker patients, if they are            pacemaker dependent they were reprogrammed to a non-sensing mode for the scan. If they            were not pacemaker dependent, they were left in their usual mode. For ICD patients, if            they were not pacemaker dependent, they were left in their usual mode. However,            pacemaker dependent ICD patients were not scanned, as ICDs generally do not have a            non-sensing pacing mode. Therapy for tachycardia was disabled in all ICDs for the scan.             There were three clinical events during scans, all were "power on resets", which means            that the device resets to "out of the box" original factory settings. One of these            patients had an ICD, felt tugging in his chest during the scan, and the scan was not            completed. The other two power on resets were in PPM patients, in whom the scan was            completed. Neither were pacemaker dependent, and neither noticed anything abnormal            during the scan. All three patients had normally functioning devices following the scan,            and at followup.             In the overall patient population in the Hopkins study, no single patient had a            malfunction of a device immediately following the scan. There was a slight change in the            electrical parameters of the leads, on average, but this did not result in the need for            any intervention on any patient.          3. Objectives             The primary objective of this study is to develop a protocol, consistent with DHHS/CMS            guidelines and requirements to further document safety in clinically indicated MR            imaging in patients with implanted cardioverter defibrillators (ICD's) and pacemakers.          4. Study Procedures             MRI's will be conducted on patients who require a clinically indicated MRI only. All            studies will be done in the 1.5 Tesla MRI unit. ECG monitoring pads will be placed on            the patients for the duration of the study. An external defibrillator and ACLS drugs            will be on hand. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will also be monitored            non-invasively throughout the study. All devices will undergo a complete interrogation            prior to imaging. Parameters such as atrial and ventricular pacing thresholds, R and P            wave amplitudes, lead impedance, and battery status will be measured and recorded. PPMs            will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited mode in            patients without pacemaker dependence.             The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to            ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependent patients with ICDs will            be excluded.             In addition, there is a theoretical concern that patients who have capped or abandoned            leads in their chest may be at risk for heating. While there is little or no objective            data to support this concern, given this theoretical concern, patients in this category            will only be admitted to the study if the referring physician deems the MRI critical and            after the PI has carefully considered the risk/benefit ration for each patient who falls            in to this category.             Similarly, there historically has also been a concern that newly implanted leads (<4            weeks) are at risk for lead to dislodgement d/t possible torque from the MRI            environment. This too is only a theoretical concern and there is little or no scientific            evidence to support this claim. Nevertheless, patients with newly implanted            pacemaker/ICD leads will be considered by the PI for protocol inclusion only if the            referring physician deems the MRI to be critical and after considering the risk/benefit            to each individual patient.             After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient's unique condition has been            completed, the device will be re-programmed to its original settings and completely            interrogated to detect any changes in device performance.             The duration of the study extends to the post procedure interrogation at 1-6 weeks post            MRI. IF the PPM or ICD reveals any malfunction post imaging (not seen yet), the patient            will be followed by the electrophysiology service and appropriate follow-up management            will be arranged.          5. Study Statistics               1. Primary outcome variable. Patient safety and device malfunction during or after MRI               2. Secondary outcome variables. None               3. Statistical plan including sample size justification and interim data analysis. We                 hope to enroll 1000 patients over 4 years to further evaluate safety.               4. Early stopping rules. N/A          6. Risks               1. Medical risks, listing all procedures, their major and minor risks and expected                 frequency.                  There are no studies showing any health hazards associated with magnetic field                 exposure. PPM and ICD implants subjected to the strong electromagnetic field of MR                 imaging are thought to be susceptible to movement and torque. Other traditional                 concerns include malfunction due to demagnetization or magnetic activation leading                 to inappropriate pacing and shocks and artificial sensing of electromagnetic                 interference from MRI leading to inappropriate inhibition and/or activation of                 antitachycardia therapy, device malfunction and induced arrhythmias, as detailed in                 the background section above. Heating of the device and surrounding tissues leading                 to fibrosis and increased capture thresholds have also been a theoretical concern.                 However, recent work has revealed the safety of PPM's and certain ICD's in the MR                 environment given appropriate precautions(1, 3, 4).               2. Steps taken to minimize the risks. Appropriate measures discussed in the protocol                 section will be taken to minimize risks associated with device exposure to MRI.                 Consistent with standard MRI policy, patients in the first trimester of pregnancy                 and patients with history of allergic reactions to gadolinium will undergo imaging                 without any contrast media.               3. Plan for reporting unanticipated problems or study deviations. Patient data will be                 monitored on a per patient basis. Pre-vs. post MRI device testing data will be                 compared and any significant differences immediately reported to the IRB.          7. Benefits a. Description of the probable benefits for the participant and for society.            The patient will benefit from a standardized protocol to minimize the risk of an MR scan            deemed necessary for his/her care which would otherwise be denied or performed without            any organized framework. Society will benefit because of the increasing number of            implanted devices and expanding use of MRI.        8 Costs        a. Detail costs of study procedure(s) or drug (s) or substance(s) to participants and       identify who will pay for them.        The patient and his/her insurance will be responsible for the cost of the clinically       indicated MRI.
nan
Aim. More than 30% of patients (pts) implanted with a pacemaker are known to have atrial       tachyarrhythmias (AT) despite medical treatment and about 20% of pts experience AT prior to       implant. The Medtronic AT500TM is a new DDDRP pacemaker with extended memory and features       designed for preventing and terminating AT. The objective of this European multi-center       prospective crossover and randomized study is to evaluate efficacy of this device for       decreasing AT burden, improving QOL and reducing symptoms and costs. Method. 243 pts are       implanted with the AT500TM and followed at 1, 7 and 13 months after implant. All patients are       selected for a dual chamber pacemaker indication plus at least two episodes of AT in the last       12 months. One month after implantation patients are randomized either to a six month therapy       phase (activation of preventive and ATP pacing) or a six month observation phase (No AT       prevention nor Therapy). Crossover (CO) takes place at seven months after implant and the       endpoint is reached at 13 months. Symptom checklist and QOL questionnaires are completed by       pts at enrollment and after the two randomization periods. At each follow-up, a Save to Disk       (STD) of device-stored AT episodes is performed and hospitalization, visits and/or other       examinations are reported for future cost evaluation.
Currently the optimal programming of the pacemaker output considers both pacemaker efficiency       (prolonging battery longevity) and patient safety (adequate safety margin). A decrease in the       programmed output can be used to increase the projected battery life or to eliminate       diaphragmatic or pectoral muscle stimulation. An increase in programmed output may be       required to account for increasing thresholds after lead implantation. The ability of an       implanted pacemaker to automatically adjust the ventricular output above the pacing threshold       while maintaining the appropriate safety margin has been explored since the early 1970s. The       Automatic capture feature in the INSIGNIA I Ultra/AVT pacemaker automatically adapts the       ventricular pacing output to ensure capture of the ventricle while optimizing the output       voltage. The primary objective of this study is to document the success rate of the automatic       threshold test in a normal pacemaker patient population by following normal pacemaker       follow-up results for 1 year.
nan
Clinical data suggest that biventricular pacing is able to preserve the myocardial       performance more effectively than the right ventricular pacing in patients with       atrioventricular block and mild systolic dysfunction . In particular, some studies have shown       that medical therapy in these patients could be responsible for an increase in the cumulative       percentage of chronic pacing over the 40% threshold , the threshold associated with a higher       incidence of atrial fibrillation and hospitalization for heart failure and ventricular       arrhythmias . In addition , patients with pre-existing left ventricular dysfunction and       indication for pacing standards have improved left ventricular systolic function , exercise       capacity and quality of life as a result of biventricular pacing as compared with Right       ventricular pacing . These results suggest that biventricular pacing is a feasible option for       permanent pacing in patients who have normal systolic function of the left ventricle and that       this can be altered from the adverse effects of conventional Right ventricular pacing on       systolic function of the left ventricle . This reality has prompted physicians to assess the       value and role of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT ) in patients with prolonged       Atrio-Ventricular (AV) conduction . Note the deleterious effects of chronic stimulation of       the right ventricle , the optimal pacing mode should always be considered in these patients       at the time of implantation . This study was designed to evaluate the potential benefits of       treatment with biventricular device in patients with normal systolic function , indication       for pacing and impaired atrio-ventricular conduction, by comparing it with the treatment with       dual chamber device
A number of clinical studies (Danish I, Danish II, David, MOST) over the past few years have       shown that, in patients with intact atrioventricular (AV) conduction, unnecessary chronic       right ventricular (RV) pacing can cause a variety of detrimental effects, including atrial       fibrillation (AF), left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, and congestive heart failure (CHF).       These effects are believed to result from the mechanical dyssynchrony and ventricular chamber       dysfunction that occurs with chronic, single-site, apical ventricular stimulation.        Therefore a new pacing modality, Managed Ventricular Pacing (MVP), was designed to give       preference to natural heart activity by minimizing unnecessary right ventricular pacing. This       is accomplished by automatically switching between single chamber atrial and dual-chamber       pacing based on specific patient needs.        MVP is an atrial-based dual-chamber pacing mode that provides functional AAI/R pacing with       ventricular monitoring and back-up DDD/R pacing only as needed during episodes of AV block.        The reversibility of the detrimental effects caused by ventricular pacing has been initially       investigated in small patient populations with short pacing durations in AAI and needs       further investigation.
DNA will be extracted from the saliva to test for changes in genes related to cardiomyopathy.
nan
In third degree, or complete atrioventricular (AV) block, atrial electrical impulses fail to       conduct to the ventricles. Congenital complete AV block (CCAVB) has an incidence of 1 in       15,000 to 1 in 25,000 live births and has a strong association with maternal antibodies.       Patients with isolated CCAVB range from completely asymptomatic to experiencing syncope,       exercise intolerance or congestive heart failure. A portion of the symptoms attributable to       CCAVB are secondary to the inability to increase heart rate, and hence cardiac output, in       response to varying physiologic demands. For symptomatic patients, the mainstay of therapy       has been cardiac pacing. Dual chamber pacing, with atrial sensing and ventricular pacing,       allows for restoration of physiologic heart rates and response to exercise or increased       metabolic demands. Resumption of AV synchrony allows for more efficient ventricular filling.       Overall, pacing in patients with CCAVB would be expected to result in improved cardiac       function and exercise tolerance.        The traditional ventricular site for pacing in patients with CCAVB has been the right       ventricular apex (RVA). This results in interventricular dyssynchrony as pacing first       stimulates the right ventricle, rather than the typical midline ventricular activation       pattern seen in patients with intact AV node conduction. Mounting evidence shows that long       term RV pacing results in morphologic changes to the LV with resultant compromised       performance. Further studies have shown that chronic RV pacing diminishes exercise capacity       in patients with heart failure as well as asymptomatic adults. There have been studies, by       our group in particular, that have documented ventricular changes in the paced pediatric       patient. No published study has examined the possible deleterious effects of RV pacing on       exercise capacity in children. We, therefore, propose to do a detailed evaluation of exercise       performance, as measured by exercise duration, maximal heart rate, oxygen uptake and       ventilatory response, in asymptomatic chronically RV paced children and young adults.        Specific Aim 1: To describe the effects of dyssynchronous ventricular activation on exercise       performance in children requiring long term RV pacing        Hypothesis 1: Long term dyssynchronous electromechanical activation, secondary to right       ventricular apical pacing, has deleterious effects on the exercise capacity of asymptomatic       pediatric patients.        Specific Aim 2: To correlate changes in exercise performance with tissue Doppler indices of       mechanical dyssynchrony.        Hypothesis 2: Tissue Doppler is a sensitive means of evaluating dyssynchrony in chronically       paced patients.        Background and Significance The goal of pacemaker therapy for CCAVB is to restore, as closely       as can be approximated, physiologic rates and activation. Standard dual chamber pacing allows       for sinus node participation in cardiac conduction. As a result, a more physiologic       chronotropic response to exercise and AV conduction could be achieved. Indeed, prior studies       concluded that dual chambered pacing resulted in increased exercise performance and improved       perception of general well being as compared to ventricular demand pacing [1-3]. There is,       however, increasing evidence that long term RVA pacing leads to detrimental effects on       cardiac function secondary to the non-physiologic ventricular activation sequence. Animal       studies have revealed regional left ventricular changes in perfusion, function and       innervation in chronically RVA paced subjects as well as asymmetric hypertrophy of the LV       wall [4,5]. Examinations of patients with inter/intraventricular dyssynchrony reveal a loss       of coordination of ventricular contraction and relaxation. When the RV is the initial site of       activation, portions of the LV are prematurely activated resulting in early segmental       contraction at a low pressure with dissipation of energy and no resultant ejection, while the       areas that activate later do so at higher stress and effect a paradoxical stretch on earlier       contracted areas [6]. These factors lead to decreased efficiency and diminished systolic       function. Ventricular dyssynchrony impairs LV pressure generation, diastolic filling and       stroke volume, as well as, increasing wall stress [7]. Tissue Doppler echocardiography has       recently proven to be a valuable tool in assessing and verifying regional wall motion       abnormalities and aberrant LV activation by its ability to determine peak systolic velocity       of different myocardial regions, degree of myocardial deformation and distinguish between       active systolic contraction and passive displacement [8,6].        Recognizing the less-than-optimal long term functional and hemodynamic effects of RVA pacing,       prior investigators have attempted to utilize alternative RV pacing sites with variable       success in improving LV function [9,10]. Most evidence, however, indicates that dyssynchrony       results in maladaptive ventricular remodeling compromised function and decreased exercise       capacity [11,12]. Evaluation of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and conduction delay has       yielded ample evidence of the deleterious effects of dysscynchronous ventricular activation.       Conversely, the positive response to the restoration of ventricular synchrony via       bi-ventricular pacing has further highlighted the negative effects of ventricular       dyysynchrony. In this subset of patients, acute biventricular pacing, as compared to RV       pacing, demonstrated increases in systolic function and ejection fraction, along with       decreased mitral insufficiency and LV volumes [13]. Resynchronization positively influences       reverse remodeling with significant reductions in LV end systolic and LV end diastolic       volumes and left atrial size - changes that appear permanent [7]. Resynchronization has also       been implicated in improved exercise capability, peak oxygen uptake and improved quality of       life measures [14].        With established evidence of maladaptive changes to cardiac morphology and function, plus       emerging evidence of adversely effected exercise capacity in adults with chronic RVA pacing,       it is necessary to investigate the possible aberrancy in exercise capacity in the RVA paced       pediatric population.        Patient Population        Patients between 10 and 21 years of age seen at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Sibley       Heart Center satisfying the following criteria:          -  Structurally normal heart          -  Congenital complete heart block          -  Dual chamber, right ventricular apex paced          -  Normal function via traditional transthoracic echocardiography          -  Absence of preexisting condition that precludes patient from exercise All participating            subjects and their parents (if applicable) will be required to sign an informed consent            prior to any study procedure. Patients with repaired or palliated congenital heart            disease will be excluded from the study. We anticipate enrolling 30 patients for this            study.        Research Design and Methods        Design:        The proposed study will be a single center, prospective, pilot examination of exercise       capacity in pediatric patients requiring right ventricular apical pacing. We will assess the       effects of chronic ventricular dyssynchrony on exercise duration, oxygen uptake and       ventilatory response to exercise. All subjects will be extracted from active patients of the       Children's Healthcare of Atlanta/ Sibley Heart Center pacemaker clinic, being followed for       CCAVB and dual chamber RVA pacing. All participants will be required to sign an informed       consent prior to a procedures. Patients with palliated or corrected congenital heart disease       will be excluded.        Procedures:          1. Echocardiographic Assessment: all participants will receive a standard 2-dimensional            M-mode and Doppler evaluation. We will assess cardiac function using left ventricular            shortening fraction and ejection fractions. Tissue Doppler imaging will be utilized to            evaluate ventricular synchrony.          2. Exercise Testing: Using a modified Bruce treadmill protocol, with staged increases in            belt speed and incline, the subject's duration of exercise, work, oxygen uptake, maximal            heart rate, blood pressure and ventilatory responses will be measured. The procedure            will take place at the exercise laboratory at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at            Egleston, utilizing the customary staff. There will be physician attendance for all            procedures. Analysis of the exercise results will be conducted by an attending pediatric            cardiologist.          3. Clinical Assessment: Clinical evaluation will be performed during routine pacemaker            clinic visit, during treadmill exercise testing and at subsequent routine pacemaker            clinic visits. The information gained from this study will not be used for individual            care.        Study Regimens After eligibility is established and baseline assessment completed, consenting       patients will undergo exercise treadmill testing. Using established CHOA protocols, max heart       rate, oxygen uptake, blood pressure and ventilatory changes will be measured during the test.       Subjects will then return to their usual and customary cardiac follow up schedule.        MANAGEMENT OF ADVERSE EVENTS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENTS        1. Monitoring of Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) is an important       aspect of data collection in this study. Families will be questioned about possible AEs       follow up survey and asked to notify clinical staff of any AE, illness, medical procedure or       hospitalization. The duration after the completion of all study procedures for which AE's       will be recorded will be one month. One month will be a sufficient time to capture all       possible AE's given that most potential AE's would occur in the immediate testing period. An       adverse event case report form (CRF) will be created to capture any medical symptoms       experienced since the exercise test to solicit unexpected AEs. For any adverse experience       reported during the study, the nature, duration, intensity and any remedial action will be       recorded. Serious AEs (life-threatening, requiring hospitalization) will be reported to the       IRB within 48 hours of notification. The Research Coordinator in conjunction with the       Principal Investigator will collect the adverse experiences from the medical record/subject.       The Principal Investigator will determine the seriousness of each adverse event.        Statistical Considerations We anticipate analyzing the obtained data utilizing analysis of       covariance (ANCOVA). The independent variable will be the group assignment (healthy vs paced       patients) and the co-variable being added to the model is age.        Ethics and Patient Safety This study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical       principals that have their base in the Declaration of Helsinki and will be conducted with       Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and applicable regulatory requirements. This study will be       conducted in compliance with the protocol. The protocol, any amendments and the subject       informed consent will receive Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval prior to initiation.       During the conduct of the study, all adverse events will be reported to the IRB during the       renewal period however, adverse events classified as serious (SAEs) will be reported within       24 hour of knowing of the occurrence to the IRB.        Freely given written informed consent including patient authorization per HIPAA guidelines       will be obtained from every subject, parent or legal guardian prior to the initiation of any       study procedures. A copy of all consent documents will be provided to the parent or legal       guardian. The rights, safety and well-being of the trial subjects are the most important       considerations and will prevail over interests of science and society.
nan
nan
Medtronic, Inc. is sponsoring the MIRACLE EF study, a prospective, randomized, controlled,       double-blinded, global multi-center, Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) in Heart Failure       (HF) clinical study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate market released CRT pacemaker       (CRT-P) devices in symptomatic HF patients with less severe left ventricular systolic       dysfunction, specifically patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in       the range of 36% to 50%. This study will support expansion of indications for CRT worldwide.       The outcome of this study is expected to support modification of existing U.S. and Japanese       labeling for Medtronic's implantable CRT-P devices and to provide further evidence to support       changes to cardiology practice guidelines (ACC/AHA, ESC guidelines) regarding the use of CRT       in patients with mild to moderate HF.        Following enrollment and the baseline assessment, eligible subjects will be implanted with a       CRT-P system and randomized in a 2:1 fashion to either treatment (CRT-P ON) or control (CRT-P       OFF) groups. Study subjects will be followed for a minimum of 24 months or until study       closure, and will remain in their randomized groups until their 60 month visit or until the       study is stopped, whichever comes first. The effectiveness of CRT-P in this population will       be assessed using a composite endpoint of time to first event, with event defined as       All-cause mortality or HF Event. To assess the safety of CRT-P in this population, the       primary safety endpoint will measure freedom from system-related complications at 6 months       post-implant.
The study had the following objectives:          1. Verify that the CoVa Monitoring System does not interfere with implanted devices.          2. Verify that implanted devices do not interfere with the functions of the CoVa Monitoring            System.          3. Verify that the CoVa Monitoring System fits on a wide variety of body types.
The guiding catheter 'Selectra 3D' is a catheter that is intended to support the implantation       of a pacemaker lead in untypical positions in the heart like in the His- bundle area.        This study is designed as post market clinical follow-up (PMCF) study to identify and       evaluate residual risks associated with the use of the guiding catheter Selectra 3D that       remained unrevealed even after risk analysis, risk mitigation and successful conformity       assessment. Moreover, the study aims at providing additional PMCF data, as required by       regulatory authorities. Furthermore, the performance and efficacy of the Selectra 3D shall be       assessed. The results will be used for updating the clinical evaluation.
nan
Primary hypothesis:        His-bundle pacing will lead to a better stroke volume at rest compared to biventricular       pacing.        Primary outcome measure:        Stroke-volume (ml) at rest assessed by invasive hemodynamic measurements with the       thermodilution method using a Swan-Ganz catheter.        Recruitment:        Patients will be recruited from the dedicated CRT outpatient clinic at Skane University       Hospital. This outpatient clinic evaluates all CRT recipients at 6 months after device       implant. If the patient is then a "non-responder" by subjective and objective measures, it is       unlikely that there will be any further benefit from the CRT device. Those patients       fulfilling the inclusion criteria but not the exclusion criteria will therefore be invited to       participate in the study. Written information will be provided to all patients prior to       informed consent is signed.        Procedure:        All patients will undergo a temporary His-bundle stimulation and hemodynamic evaluation. The       procedure takes place at the dedicated laboratory for advanced hemodynamic evaluation at       Skåne University Hospital in Lund. The first option for vascular access is the right external       jugular vein. Under sterile conditions, ultrasound guided venous puncture will be performed,       using standard Seldinger technique. A 7F catheter (Medtronic C315) will then be placed over a       long guidewire, and used to direct a dedicated pacemaker lead (Medtronic Select Secure 3830)       to the His bundle. In case of technical difficulties, a steerable 9F catheter will be used       instead (Medtronic C304 deflectable). If HBP is not possible using jugular access, an       alternate access via the right femoral vein may be used instead. If the femoral vein is used,       only resting measurements will be performed, since it is not possible to thread on the supine       bike with a catheter in situ via the femoral vein. In parallel, in a short 8F introducer, a       7F multilumen Swan Ganz catheter will be placed over a long guidewire, and advanced to the       left or right pulmonary artery. The catheter will then be wedged in a pulmonary segmental       artery to obtain left atrial pressure curves.        The pacing lead will be connected to an electrophysiology 12-lead ECG system with capability       of pacing and continuous ECG registration of external and intracardiac signals. His bundle       potential will be identified probing the correct anatomical area with the electrode, and       subsequently the pacing properties of the electrode will be tested. If the pacing properties       result in selective (or subsidiary non-selective) his bundle capture, the electrode will be       secured in place by 2-3 careful rotations of the entire electrode. The goal is to achieve a       stable position with minimal risk of damaging the conduction system by trauma. Since the       patients are paced using the CRT device anyway, trauma to the conduction system will not be       deleterious, but it may hamper the ability to place a permanent HBP lead at a later stage, if       that is indicated. When stable pacing conditions are in place, the stimulation program will       be initiated. Depending on randomization results, the intrinsic CRT system or the temporary       His-lead will be used for pacing. Pacing and sensing in the right atrium will be achieved       using atrial electrodes on the outside of the Swan Ganz catheter.        The patients are randomized to wither Biventricular pacing first or HBP first. The pacing       program involves both pacing at rest and pacing during sub maximal exercise test (supine       bicycle test). Each pacing step is sustained at steady state for at least 2 minutes prior to       measurement of intracardiac pressures, cardiac output and stroke volume calculations. After       the pacing protocol is finished, the catheters are withdrawn and the site of venopuncture is       manually compressed during 5 minutes. The patients are then observed during 2 hours, before       discharge and completion of the study.        A hemodynamic optimization will be performed regarding device settings for all patients.       Patients who have a positive hemodynamic response to HBP, compared to CRT pacing, will at a       follow-up stage be offered an upgrade to permanent HBP.
MADIT-ASIA is a multicenter, prospective, randomized clinical study. The primary aim is to       show that two lead CRT-P with guideline-based optimal pharmacological therapy is associated       with a significantly greater improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at 6       months compared with guideline-based optimal pharmacologic therapy only.        The study will be initially conducted at approximately 25 centers in up to 9 countries in       Asia including India, Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, China, Japan, South Korea and Singapore. If       necessary, more sites may be invited to participate to meet the enrollment goal.        Following randomization, subjects will have scheduled clinic visit follow-ups at 1, 3 and       6-month intervals. Relevant event history, cardiac medications, physical assessment, device       interrogation/programming status and adverse events will be collected at each follow-up       visit. At the 6-month visit, a repeat echocardiogram and a 12-lead ECG will be obtained.       Subjects will be followed through the 6 month visit. After that, subjects will have a safety       follow up contact at the end of the study. The study will end when the last randomized       subject reaches the 6 months visit.
nan
The RARE PEARL is a multicenter prospective, randomized, double-blinded, crossover study.        Prior entering the study the patient should be informed and should give his written consent.       Besides he/she should meet all selection criteria. The Investigator has to check that all       selection criteria are satisfied. Then the patient undergoes pacemaker implantation,       receiving a pacemaker model C20 SSIR or T20 SSIR (or later). The ventricular lead must be       bipolar independently of the manufacturer.        After pacemaker implantation, a 45 days Stabilization Period is necessary to stabilize leads       and drug therapy.        At the end of the stabilization period the patient is randomized to have VRS algorithm       switched either ON or OFF. The 1° Study Phase ends after 2 months. Then a cross-over takes       place: VRS algorithm is switched respectively OFF or ON and the 2° Study Phase is started.       Also the 2° Study Phase ends after 2 months.        The randomization will be centralized: randomization lists will be generated and managed by       the sponsor. Because the patients will undergo a QoL questionnaire at each crossover phase,       they will have to be blinded about the status of their VRS setting. Similarly, also the       co-investigators administering the QoL questionnaires have to be blinded about the status of       VRS setting. Only the principal investigator knows if the VRS algorithm is ON or OFF. The       principal investigator will be instructed not to inform the patient and the co-investigators       administering QoL questionnaire about the setting until after the end of the study.        The co-investigator(s) responsible for QoL questionnaire should not perform the patient       follow-up at 1° and 2° Study Phase, otherwise the patient is automatically excluded from the       study.        After the cross-over period (2 + 2 months) a Free Therapy Phase (3° Phase) starts. Device       settings and drug therapy are left to the physician's discretion.        One year after implantation a final follow-up is scheduled. The study ends and the pacemaker       can be programmed according to the physician's discretion.
Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) have a substantial risk of stroke and systemic       embolism. Subclinical AF is often suspected to be the cause of stroke in these patients. The       detection of asymptomatic AF episodes is a challenge and the real rate of occurrence of these       episodes remains unknown. The rate of stroke is high among patients who have received a       pacemaker and this device can detect subclinical episodes of rapid atrial rate, which       correlate with electrocardiographically documented AF. The net benefit of anticoagulant       treatment is well established in patients with clinical AF but data about anticoagulation for       subclinical AF settings is unknown. The aim of this study is to assess the impact of       anticoagulant therapy on subclinical AF, directed by cardiac implantable electronic device       (CIED) intensive monitoring, on the incidence of stroke and systemic embolism and correlate       the AF episodes detected by CIED with thromboembolic events. Methods: This is a prospective,       randomized, unicentric, parallel clinical study in patients with an atrioventricular       pacemaker, defibrillator, or cardiac resynchronization therapy devices in sinus rhythm and       CHADS2 score (an index of the risk of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation, range from       0 to 6) ≥ 2 . Patients will be randomized to the intervention group - intensive monitoring       arm (Group I) or control group - routine schedule arm (Group II) in a 1:1 ratio. Time to       inclusion will be 24 months and all patients will be followed up for a period of 36 months.       Group I, patients will be submitted to device data collection every 2 months, while in Group       II, patients will be managed conventionally. Patients from Group I with episodes of       subclinical AF will receive anticoagulant therapy, as well as patients with clinical AF of       both arms. Device data from Group II patients will not be analyzed until they achieve the       primary endpoint. Primary endpoint: stroke or systemic embolism. Secondary endpoints:       subclinical AF rate, total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction,       cardiovascular hospitalization, and bleeding rates. Expected outcome: It is expected that       anticoagulation therapy of subclinical AF directed by CIED intensive monitoring will reduce       the incidence of stroke and systemic embolism comparing to patients with non-diagnosed       subclinical AF.
The purpose of this study is to introduce novel measurements to improve the classification of       ventricular diastolic performance.        There are 2 cohorts. Cohort 1 consists of 100 subjects who were referred and received echo       guided biventricular pacemaker optimization. This retrospective component data is being       retrieved to compare baseline and final cardiac performance measures. Comparisons will be       made between Doppler and 3D echo diastolic and systolic markers. The Doppler diastolic       markers will include D-E slope measuring the rate of pressure equalization between the left       atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV) during inspiration and expiration. MV VTI, the velocity       time integral of the left ventricular inflow tract (LVIT) a surrogate measure for LV filling       volume, averaging three consecutive complexes and minimal and maximal variability. TDI,       tissue Doppler Imaging, when coupled with LVIT measures provides an estimation of left       ventricular diastolic pressure. IRT, isovolemic relaxation time, an indicator of LA preload,       S/D ratio, an indicator of LA compliance/pressure compared to pulmonary venous pressure. LAv,       LA volume, a criteria for diastolic dysfunction grading. TRvmax, tricuspid regurgitation       maximum velocity, used to estimate right ventricular systolic pressure. 3D measures will be       obtained from the volume curve generated from the 3D full volume image acquisition. The 2       slopes being compared are the initial filling (R1) and intermediate filling (R2) rates of       volume change over time or R1/R2. LV ejection fraction, diastolic filling time (DFT),       ejection time (ET), heart rate (HR), initial filling time (IFT), and stroke volume (SV) are       all being measured from the 3D volume curve.        Cohort 2 consists of normal healthy participants to serve as a comparison providing HF       diseased state differentiation. All baseline measures performed in cohort 1 will be done for       cohort 2.        Primary Objective/Aim/Goal/Hypothesis Hypothesis: To determine if LV volume curves can be       used to generate a single number that globally describes diastolic function and identify       relationship to current grouping algorithm.        Secondary Objective/Aim/Goal/Hypothesis Hypothesis: To determine if the pulse wave Doppler of       the left ventricular inflow tract D-E slope measure and changes correlate with changes in       diastolic performance of the LV.        Hypothesis: Does weighting of the volume curve analysis with various features of the curve       such as stroke volume, initial filling volume, and initial filling volume percent provide       greater sensitivity or specificity in differentiating diastolic performance.        Study Design: This study is a retrospective observational data analysis of echocardiographic       images and Doppler waveforms comparing data between measurements and calculations taken at       baseline and after final programming of biventricular pacemaker devices performed during a       single visit. Additionally, the echo data from 5 normal healthy participants will be acquired       during a single visit to establish normal values and demonstrate reproducibility.
nan
RESET is a multicenter trial that will assess the effect of pacing in heart failure patients       with a normal ejection fraction (or diastolic heart failure). The purpose of the RESET study       is to evaluate the effect of pacing on exercise capacity and quality of life in this heart       failure population.
It is well established that chronic right ventricular apical pacing has an adverse effect on       left ventricular systolic function. An alternative is pacing the left ventricular apex, which       has shown more favourable results in terms of left ventricular pump function than the RVA in       small series. The left ventricular apex may be paced via the coronary sinus tributary (e.g.       in the anterior cardiac vein). Our study will compare effects of these two pacing sites on       left ventricular ejection fraction measured by 3D-echocardiography.
nan
nan
The incidence of Atrial Fibrillation (AF) in Sick Sinus Syndrome patients treated with pacing       is quite high. As AF can cause dizziness, fatigue, thromboembolism and ischemic stroke it is       clinically relevant. Due to earlier publications pacing modes and lead placement seem to       influence the incidence of AF. In this study the incidence of AF will be compared between 4       different atrial lead positions:          1. Free atrial wall          2. right atrial appendage          3. coronary sinus-os          4. Dual site right atrial pacing: b) plus c).        The following primary parameters will be evaluated during the study period of 2 years after       implantation:          1. Amounts of AF episodes with a duration of > 48 hours          2. Amounts of AF episodes with a duration of > 30 minutes          3. Consultations of physicians due to AF Secondarily, AF burden, Incidence of AF in total,            Quality of Life, implant duration and complications will be evaluated.
nan
nan
The infection of cardiac implantable electronic device site (including both pocket infection       and deeper infections) is a common complication of electronic device insertion. Its incidence       is estimated in different series as 0.2-0.7 per 100 device-years. The risk factors that raise       the incidence of this complication are in the first place lack of or inappropriate antibiotic       prophylaxis and repeated or recurrent manipulations with the device. Several comorbidities       such as diabetes, renal insufficiency, heart failure, malignancy, anticoagulation treatment,       and, non-surprisingly glucocorticoid treatment are the remaining risk factors for the       infection. It is worth mentioning that over half of all cases of infection occur during the       first year past implantation.        About 75% of all device infections are caused by staphylococci (both S. aureus and coagulase       negative staphylococci). The other causative organisms are streptococci, Corynebacterium       species, Propionibacterium, gram-negative bacilli and fungi. Main source of infection appears       to be pocket contamination by skin flora. In one study the swab specimens obtained from       device pockets during the procedure rendered positive culture for coagulase-negative       staphylococci in up to one half of the specimens even despite observant aseptic technique and       appropriate antibiotic prophylaxis.Thus, the contamination leading to infection of the       implantation site can occur during the procedure. Other possible paths for infection include       erosion of the device or its leads through the skin and seeding of the device and its leads       by systemic bacteremia. The treatment of this complication usually requires explantation of       the infected device, intravenous antibiotic treatment and then implantation of a new device       through the non-infected route.        The principal approach to prevent device infection remain aseptic technique during the       procedure and appropriate antibiotic prophylaxis. Different clinical trials showed that       pre-treatment of elective patients before the device implantation with anti-staphylococcal       penicillins or with first generation cephalosporins results in decrease in rate of infection       with odds ratio about 0.2-0.25.Therefore, current recommendation is to pre-treat patients       before implantation of the device with 2-3 gram cefazolin or 1.5 gram cefuroxime, or 15 mg/kg       vancomycin or clindamycin 900 mg IV within 4 hours before the procedure. Currently there is       no evidence regarding adjuvant antibiotic treatment after the implantation. In the face of       lack of evidence, several medical centres in Israel either non-uniformly administer different       antibiotic regimens following the implantation or refrain from routinely prescribing any       antibiotics to the patients following the implantation.        Objective:        The investigators suppose that non-necessary antibiotic treatment entails several adverse       outcomes including direct adverse effects of the antibiotics (e.g. allergy, gastrointestinal       effects, QT-prolongation), and induction of resistance to antibiotics among the patient's       microflora entailing further infections with resistant bacteria (e.g. urinary tract       infections, diarrhea). Therefore, an evidence either warranting use of antibiotics following       the implantation of implantable electronic device or refuting it should be established.        Medications:          1. cefalexin 500 mg qid,          2. roxithromycin 150 mg bid Both medications are authorized in Israel for a variety of            infections or infection prevention including prevention of implantable cardiac            electronic device infection. Both medications are routinely prescribed in medical            centres in Israel following implantation of cardiac electronic devices.
nan
nan
nan
This current care protocol is for 3 groups of patients :          1. Role of mapping arrhythmias before radiofrequency ablation :             Radiofrequency ablation is a treatment of atrial or ventricular arrhythmias resistant to            drug treatment. The electrocardiogram does not allow a full diagnosis of arrhythmias and            it appears difficult to get a comprehensive and simultaneous view of cardiac activity            during invasive maps. The Investigators have demonstrated the feasibility of mapping            atrial fibrillation and its usefulness to guide radiofrequency ablation. The            non-invasive mapping would allow a better understanding of complex cardiac arrhythmias            mechanism (atrial fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in            particular), would identify the arrhythmogenic sites and thus facilitate radiofrequency            ablation.          2. Optimizing the site of implantation of cardiac pacing leads and programming the            pacemaker:             The optimal position of the cardiac pacing leads may vary from one patient to another            and the current choice of implantation sites is essentially guided by imaging and does            not use power requirements because of the inadequacies of the ECG standard. The            Investigators have already demonstrated the usefulness of non-invasive mapping in the            selection of potential responders to cardiac resynchronization therapy. The non-invasive            mapping would study the cardiac electrical activation in order to determine the optimal            pacing sites and optimum programming according to each patient and thus improve the            clinical response to pacing.          3. Role diagnostic and prognostic for patients referred for evaluation of the risk of            occurrence of a serious rhythm disorder or sudden death :        The possibility to identify electrically abnormal areas either during the activation, or       during cardiac repolarization with the high-resolution ECG is an indication of myocardial       pathology that can be both unapparent on standard ECG and inaccessible to imaging techniques       (ultrasound, CT or MRI). It is likely that such electrical anomalies are early diagnostic       features of heart disease that will later be apparent. Such anomalies can also have an       adverse prognostic weight (risk of arrhythmias or sudden death) that can be corrected if it       is highlighted. Non-invasive mapping seems particularly important in patients with       unexplained symptoms by conventional tests (palpitations or discomfort - syncope). It will       also be applicable to patients with heart disease (myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy) in       search of localized electrical disorders that can be an originating site of arrhythmia.
Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has emerged as a favorable alternative for       severe symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) patients from low to high surgical risk. BAV patients       treated with TAVR had similar 30-day mortality as well as stroke and new pacemaker       implantation rates compared to TAV subjects, but carried higher risk of moderate/severe PVL,       conversion to surgery and device failure. Event rates significantly decreased with the use of       new-generation devices, but TAVR still showed better procedural results in TAV compared to       BAV.        Clinical experience in China suggests bicuspid aortic valves and heavy calcium burden are       more common among TAVR candidates. Morphological characteristics at supra-annular structure       (from annulus to the level of sinotubular junction) are quite complex in bicuspid AS,       especially concomitant with heavily calcified leaflets. Because only two leaflet hinge points       provide the definition of the annulus plane, current CT-based annulus measurements might not       be accurate under these circumstances. From previous single center clinical practice, "waist       sign" above the annulus during balloon aortic valvuloplasty in TAVR was often observed in       patients with bicuspid AS, indicating that the supra-annular structure may serve a key role       in anchoring the THV.        Therefore, we developed a balloon based supra-annular sizing strategy (Hangzhou Solution) for       SEV implantation in bicuspid AS. From our single center experience, the device success rate       and pacemaker implantation rate were relatively low.        The aim of this study is to compare supra-annular sizing and THV implantation technique       (Hangzhou solution) versus annular sizing and THV implantation technique (control group) in       bicuspid aortic stenosis (AS) patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement       (TAVR) with self-expanding valves (SEVs).
nan
nan
Prolonged pacing from the right ventricular (RV) Apex has been shown to be associated with       progressive left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. This has led to an interest in alternative       right ventricular pacing sites. Only very few studies investigated the effect of alternative       right ventricular pacing sites using three dimensional imaging. Using cardiac MRI volumetric       left- and right ventricular analysis and three-dimensional reconstruction is more accurate       compared to trans-thoracic echocardiogram. St. Jude Medical has developed a MRI conditional       pacemaker system enabling for the first time to investigate alternative pacing sites using       cardiac MRI.        Patients already implanted with an MRI conditional pacemaker system from St. Jude Medical       will be enrolled in that study and subdivided into 4 groups (right ventricular pacing lead       positioned apically or septally subdivided in patients paced for <50% of time or 50% or       more). All patients will undergo cardiac MRI at enrollment and again 12 months later.       Patients paced <50% of the time will undergo cardiac MRI with and without pacemaker       stimulation at both visits.
Epidemiologic studies have shown that 70-80% of patients with atrial fibrillation are older       than 65 years of age. Drug therapy for atrial fibrillation is not effective or not tolerated       in many elderly patients, for both rate or rhythm strategies. Preliminary data from AVN       ablation and pacemaker therapy demonstrated this strategy is highly effective in controlling       symptoms among patients who have failed numerous drug therapy. Quality of life is improved       while hospital admission and office visits are reduced.        Pilot Study Design          -  All patients will be 1:1 randomized to standard-care drug therapy (American College of            Cardiology/American Heart Association Guideline, 2006) or AV node ablation and pacemaker            therapy          -  For patients randomized to AVN ablation, there will be a 1:1 sub-randomization to            conventional right ventricular apex pacing or cardiac resynchronization therapy            (biventricular pacing)          -  All patients will be followed at 2 and 6 months from the time of randomization in the            pilot study.          -  A total of 60 patients from 5-15 clinical sites will be enrolled during an active            recruiting period of 12 months for the pilot study.
Clinical procedure:        For the operation standard procedures for anaesthesia, surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass       will be used. This includes installment of a pulmonary artery catheter and performing a       transesophageal echocardiography. For the purpose of this study additional TEE images and a       transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) will be obtained in order to correlate different       echocardiographic indices with haemodynamic measurements and investigate any differences       between TTE and TEE measurements.        Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE):        Basic TTE will be performed after anaesthesia induction, before surgery commences and       repeated immediately after arrival at the ICU.        Image acquisitions from TTE:          -  2D apical 4-chamber view for right ventricular fractional area change (RVFAC)          -  M-mode tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE).          -  M-mode lateral mitral annular plane systolic excursion (MAPSE) measurements        Transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE):        After probe placement and before commencing surgery a TEE will be performed. The probe will       be left in place during surgery for continuous imaging. Standard views used for patient       treatment will be acquired in accordance with the requirements of the treating       anaesthesiologist and surgeon.        Additional views will be added in order to obtain standard 2D measures, M-mode measures,       spectral doppler measures, myocardial doppler tissue imaging, strain and 3D measures of RV       function.        Measurements will be performed at different stages throughout surgery following a period of       relative hemodynamic stability defined as: 1 minute of no more than 10 beats/min variation in       heart rate, maximum variation of 10 mmHg in mean arterial pressure, maximum variation of 3       mmHg in central venous pressure and no change in administration of vasoactive drugs. If       hemodynamic stability cannot be achieved an annotation comment will be entered.        Time points for echocardiography:        TEE will be performed at four different time points during and immediately after surgery:        Stage 1: After induction of anaesthesia. Stage 2: After full sternotomy Stage 3: After       completion of cardiopulmonary bypass Stage 4: Immediately after arrival at the ICU and will       be repeated after each intervention        Interventions Each intervention will be investigated separately and before each intervention       the patient will return to hemodynamic baseline.        Trendelenburg position for 5 minutes will be investigated. Following positive end-expiratory       pressures will be investigated: 0 cm H2O, 5 cm H2O and 10 cm H2O.        Following fractions of inspired O2 will be investigated: 0.5 and 1.0 for 10 minutes at each       setting.        Following pacemaker settings will be investigated: Atrioventricular pacing 10 bpm over the       patients' intrinsic rhythm, atrial pacing 10 bpm over the patients' intrinsic rhythm,       ventricular pacing 10 bpm over the patients' intrinsic rhythm
The objectives of the study are:          -  Feasibility: to validate and determine the applicability of a pre-specified algorithm            for managing conduction disturbances in consecutive patients undergoing TAVR, also            evaluating the percentage of patients included in each group of the algorithm strategy.          -  Efficacy: (i) to evaluate the rate of permanent pacemaker implantation in-hospital and            at 30 days compared to that of the year prior to the implementation of the protocol,            (ii) to determine the incidence of sudden death at 30 days and at 1-year follow-up.
Evaluation of safety of MR scanning of patients with implanted cardiac devices. Device       parameters pre and post MR imaging will be assessed.
Investigators investigate a major determinant focused on the ECG or echocardiogram or genetic       factor to predict the PICM after implantation of pacemaker. Not only QRS duration and       mechanical strain but also genetic factor could be also investigated to predict the       occurrence of PICM before diagnosis fo PICM
In a simple cross-over study, the investigators will evaluate the impact of oral Ivabradine       on exercise treadmill test, percent pacing as stored in pacemaker diagnostics, and 6 minute       walk test.        Aim/Hypotheses        • To determine if the addition of Ivabradine to baseline cardiac medications slows mean and       maximum heart rates in permanent atrial fibrillation          -  Ivabradine will lower mean and maximum heart rates on treadmill exercise test, without            lowering blood pressure          -  Ivabradine will increase percent pacing, and lower rates over time as shown on pacemaker            diagnostic data          -  Ivabradine will improve exertional symptoms and exercise tolerance due to atrial            fibrillation as measured by the Borg's scale during a six-minute walk test.        Study Design          1. Patients with permanent atrial fibrillation will undergo baseline exercise treadmill            test, measurement of heart rates and percent pacing from pacemaker diagnostics, and a 6            minute walk test with symptomatic assessment of dyspnea using the Borg's scale score.          2. Oral Ivabradine will be started at 5 mg twice daily, and up-titrated to a maximum dose            of 7.5 mg twice daily at 7 days if percent pacing has not increased significantly or            rates have not slowed more than 20bpm.          3. Exercise treadmill test, measurement of heart rates and percent pacing from pacemaker            diagnostics, and a 6 minute walk test with symptomatic assessment of dyspnea using the            Borg's scale score will be repeated at 2 weeks.
TAVR is a very commonly performed procedure throughout the world; it has become standard of       care as the treatment for aortic stenosis and is performed in hundreds of thousands of       patients annually. TAVR affords patients therapies that prolong life and improve quality of       life; furthermore, these therapies afford certain patients who are not candidates for       surgical options hope for the future. Adults undergoing TAVR may suffer the complication of       requiring a pacemaker after the procedure, in up to 30% of cases. Interventionalists still       don't understand how to best predict this complication; in fact some patients that ultimately       need a pacemaker don't get one after the procedure and some that get a pacemaker are found to       ultimately not have really needed it. A better understanding of who does and who does not       need pacemakers will help prevent complications of high grade block in those without       pacemaker (death, syncope and trauma) and also the complications of unnecessary pacemaker       implantation (infection, tricuspid regurgitation).        Primary hypothesis: EP studies (EPS), which studies when performed before and after TAVR adds       independent incremental value, above and beyond other parameters, for the prediction of       high-grade heart block after TAVR. The goal is to understand conduction disease changes       before and after TAVR, coupled with other patient and procedural factors that can help create       a management algorithm for conduction disease after TAVR.        Primary endpoint: to find correlation coefficients between a) absolute and delta values of       various EPS findings, and b) clinical endpoint of high-grade conduction disease as diagnosed       clinically, by ECG, by event monitor, or by interrogation of permanent pacemaker implanted       after TAVR.        Methods: Patients will receive EPS immediately before and after TAVR (while on the       catheterization lab table for TAVR procedure) and then again the next day; this information       will help determine whether the patient gets a pacemaker, a 30-day event monitor, or neither,       and we will study which parameters obtained during the EPS, in addition to other       known/suspected predictors of conduction disease after TAVR, best correlate with serious       problems with the heart's electrical conduction system as determined by clinical follow-up.        Anticipated findings: that the EPS findings add incremental and independent value in       predicting which patients will develop high grade conduction disease.
The purpose of the study was to investigate the rate of conduction disturbances after       trans-catheter aortic valve implantation of the Medtronic CoreValve device, aiming to       characterize best practices. The investigators did not assign study specific interventions to       the subjects in the study.
COGNATE is an acute, confirmatory prospective, multi-center study designed to gather data on       Brady and CRT-P indicated patients, with no restrictions on the type/brand of leads. This       study will enroll up to 80 patients in up to 12 centers. Total duration of the study is       expected to be 9 months.
Cardiovascular diseases represent one of the main causes of death in the Brazilian       population, as well as dysfunctions of the heart conduction system. In an attempt to treat       and correct heart conduction system dysfunctions, Cardiac Electronic Implantable Device       (CEID) was developed. Most people with CEID have a perception of describing the lifestyle due       to a limitation of daily activities and physical exercise, besides the consequences in the       psychological aspects such as anxiety and depression. These changes in the psychosocial       conduct of patients with CEID are due to the lack of knowledge and the lack of effective       guidance, being of fundamental importance to elaborate the resources of education in health       for patients with CEID. Health promotion through educational intervention is a recognized       strategy and an Internet approach to the mobile health proposal is a recognized and promising       practice.        This randomized controlled study is been conducted to verify the effectiveness of the Mobile       Health of lifestyle that focuses on aspects of physical functional, psychosocial, and quality       of life of patients with CEID. The hypothesis is that the use of Mobile Health of lifestyle       provides greater physical functional, psychological aspects, and quality of life to patients       with CIED.
nan
nan
Subjects indicated for a dual chamber pacemaker implant or replacement who are not 100%       dependent on right ventricular pacing may be eligible to participate in the study.        This investigation will evaluate the effect of RV pacing lead position on cardiac function       and the modulation of the autonomic nervous system using Cardiac Neuromodulation Therapy       (CNT) pacing signals at different positions of the RV pacing lead.        A standard conductance catheter will be introduced through the femoral artery and advanced       into the left ventricle to measure cardiac volumes and pressure.        Arterial blood pressure will be measured either from the femoral artery sheath through which       the conductance catheter is introduced, or from a radial arterial line.        The Moderato® IPG will be used to generate Cardiac Neuromodulation Therapy (CNT) signals and       deliver them to the patient through the cable and leads. A range of CNT signal parameters       will be used to assess the effect on sympathetic activity at different positions of the RV       pacing lead. Ventricular pressure and volume readings from the conductance catheter and       arterial pressure readings will be recorded and analyzed to assess the effect of CNT signals       on cardiac function, sympathetic activity and blood pressure.        The effects of CNT signal over a range of parameter settings will be studied for the       different RV lead positions.
nan
This study will identify Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-based cardiac       electrophysiologists at three Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs). Each cardiac       electrophysiologist will participate in a videoconference during which time an academic       detailing and audit and feedback intervention will be implemented, which will include details       and recommendations about lead selection for implantation, based on cardiovascular       implantable electronic device (CIED: pacemaker and implantable cardioverter-defibrillator       [ICD]) lead-specific failure rates for lead models currently available in clinical practice.       The cardiac electrophysiologist will also be presented with quantitative data about the       individual physician's facilities implants and national data on implants over the past year.       These data will be shared in advance, with time for questions and discussion. The       electrophysiologist will be asked if anything can be done to facilitate selection of CIED       lead models with the statistically and clinically significantly lower failure rates.        Then, over the subsequent 3 months, a quantitative evaluation of the CIED lead models       implanted will be evaluated, comparing changes in lead model selection among the       electrophysiologists receiving the intervention to a control group of all VA cardiac       electrophysiologists who do not receive the intervention. Subsequently, semi-structured       interviews will be conducted to assess reasons for changes, or lack thereof, in CIED lead       model selection - including barriers and facilitators. Finally, quantitative data will be       included to each of the cardiac electrophysiologists, with additional feedback.
One hundred patients who undergo subcutaneous ICD or pacemaker implant and consent to       inclusion in the trial will be randomized to one of two groups. One group will receive       standard of care instructions after implant. These standard instructions include: no pushing       or pulling movements with arm on side of implant, no lifting over 5 lbs., and no movements       above the level of the shoulder for six weeks post implant. This will be the control group.       The second group, the exercise group, will be instructed verbally on a series of specific       exercises (appendix A) to be completed at least three days per week for 6 weeks.        After the patient signs informed consent, a demographic form will be completed. At this       enrollment visit, both groups will be asked to use a visual analog scale to report level of       shoulder and/or extremity discomfort. Physical exam will include the impingement test,       assessment of shoulder elevation, and measurement of the angle of abduction at which       discomfort occurs. Subjects will be given the QuickDASH questionnaire (Appendix B) to       complete. This questionnaire is an 11 item self-report questionnaire designed to assess the       physical function and symptoms during certain activities.        At the 1 week follow-up visit, the patient will be informed of their randomization group. The       patients in the control group will receive standard of care instructions. The patients in the       exercise group will have specific exercises demonstrated to them and written instructions       with pictures will be provided for home reference. Follow-up for both groups will occur at 1,       3 and 6 months post implant and it will include a physical exam, the QuickDASH questionnaire,       and the visual analog scale. Patients in the exercise group will be asked to complete an       exercise log and return it to the study staff after the 6 week of exercise is complete. In       addition, telephone follow-ups will be completed for the exercise group at 2, 3, 5, and 6       weeks post implant. Patients will be asked how often they complete the exercises.
Background: The number of worldwide implanted cardiac electronic devices (CIED) is increasing       continuously. On the other hand, the number of (more and more complex) surgical and catheter       based interventions in this population is increasing as well. Recommendations for       peri-operative management are often based on older data from case reports and small       collectives. Data especially in particular subpopulations is limited.        Objective: The study aims to evaluate the peri-operative management and outcome of patients       with implanted CIED undergoing non-CIED related surgery or catheter interventional procedures       (ablation) in clinical routine. Data from the study are expected to provide evidence for       recommendations improving perioperative management and device programming.        Study design: bi-center, non-randomized, observational registry, retrospective       data-collection, on-going prospective patient enrollment, descriptive statistics Centers:       Klinikum Fuerth (dep. for Heart and Lung disease, section for clinical electrophysiology),       Klinikum Nuernberg (dep. for Heart surgery).        Patients and methods:        Primary endpoint: number and type of peri-operative adverse device related events (ADE)        - all complaints, adverse events and adverse device effects will be documented and classified       according to the ISO/DIS 14155 - Clinical Investigation of medical Devices in Human Subjects       - Good Clinical Practices with respect to their relationship to the surgical or catheter       intervention and [Stark NJ. A New standard for medical device adverse event classification. J       of Clinical Research Best Practices 2009; 5(12): 1-7].        Secondary endpoints: pre-interventional data (patient characteristics, data from CIED       interrogation); peri-interventional data (type of surgery/intervention, anesthesiology       techniques, any AE), post-interventional data (data from post-interventional CIED       interrogation, need for reprogramming / device revision).        Subpopulations: cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, catheter ablation, ICD and mode of therapy       inhibition, CRT, automatic features        Inclusion criteria:        patients with implanted CIED undergoing non-CIED related surgical or catheter-based       procedure, peri-procedural CIED interrogation, age >18 years Exclusion criteria: no implanted       CIED, no data from peri-procedural CIED interrogation available.        Patient enrollment: retrospectively from the clinical records beginning from 2008, further       on-going prospective inclusion Data acquisition: Data will be collected in CRF´s from the       patient's history, the computer based clinical information system / clinical records and data       records from CIED interrogations        Sample size: For the observational study, there is no pre-specified sample size.        Data from more than 500 patients undergoing > 700 interventions are expected.        Data security: Study related data are collected by the study investigators in an anonymous       clinic-internal data-base, that is password protected.        All investigators have to provide valid GCP training.        Risk estimation: the study is observational and descriptive with anonymized data       collection/analysis and therefore adds no risk to the study population
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) devices with or without cardiac       resynchronization therapy (CRT-D) have the ability to continuously monitor heart rate       variability, daily heart rate, and patient activity. Changes in these measures have been       associated with heart failure prognosis. In addition, ICD or CRT-D devices also have the       ability to measure daily intrathoracic impedance. Previous data have demonstrated that       device-based intrathoracic impedance measurements correlate with pulmonary capillary wedge       pressure and fluid retention, both of which are common measures of heart failure status. The       objective of this study is to evaluate whether the heart rate variability, daily heart rate,       and/or intrathoracic impedance can be used in conjunction with other methods to determine if       patients are ready for hospital discharge. This will be the first step in potentially       developing an inpatient care strategy which includes implantable device data. It is       hypothesized that device diagnostic data will identify an appropriate and safe time to       discharge patients admitted for worsening heart failure symptoms before usual clinical       indicators. More specifically, we hypothesize that device data will "normalize" at least one       day prior to the clinical indicators of readiness for discharge and patients discharged prior       to "normalization" of the device data will be at greater risk for rehospitalization
nan
During percutaneous cardiovascular interventions such as Transcatheter Heart Valve or       coronary intervention, temporary cardiac stimulation may be required. Usually this       stimulation is generated via a temporary pacing catheter in the right ventricle. This       procedure requires an additional venous access and the insertion of the stimulation catheter,       which are both likely to generate complications. In order to reduce the complexity and       increase the safety of the procedure, a new stimulation strategy has been developed: the       "Direct Wire Pacing technique". In this approach, the specific venous access and the       implantation of a stimulation catheter are avoided. The cardiac stimulation is provided via       the guidewire inserted into the left ventricle or into the coronary arteries. This guidewire       is connected to an external Pacemaker using an alligator clamp (Cathode). The Pacemaker anode       is also connected using a clamp attached to a needle piercing the subcutaneous tissue,       obtaining a closed electrical circuit. This technique was validated during previous studies       in the TAVI context through two registries and one randomized controlled trial. This study       demonstrated the superiority of the new technique by showing a reduction of the procedural       duration, radiation exposure and costs; with similar efficacy and safety. However the       subcutaneous needle insertion is likely to generate electrical pain, risk of bleeding for the       patient and risk of blood exposure accident for the operators. This subcutaneous anode       increases the stimulation threshold (mA) which can cause stimulation failures. Moreover,       several technical difficulties preclude general adoption by the scientific community. This is       why the medical device ELECTRODUCER SLEEVE has been developed. This device integrates a       pacing function to the introducer and the guidewire used during percutaneous cardiovascular       interventions. The guidewire then behaves like an intra-cardiac cathode. Thanks to the       device, the complex manipulation of needles and clamps during the intervention are avoided as       well as pole inversions. The "Direct Wire Pacing technique" used during the coronary and       structural interventions is thus simplified, secured and more reproducible.
nan
nan
nan
nan
Each subject who fulfills the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be provided with Zio patch       for 2 weeks before TAVR. Immediately after the procedure, patients will be admitted per TAVR       protocol and will be on telemetry. Data about their ECGs and any arrhythmias will be       collected.        Upon discharge, patients will be provided with another Zio patch for 2 weeks. At the 2-3       months follow up, subjects will be provided with a third Zio patch for 2 weeks
Prospective, non-randomized, multi-center, single group, post market clinical study The       devices are fully commercially available and all subjects are planned to receive a CRT-P       implant as part of their standard of care (SOC). The assignment of the specific Ingenio 2       device is physician's choice and will consider leads currently in place from previous devices       and planned new leads (e.g., Acuity X4 and/or other LV leads).        Enrollment and Consenting Clinic Visit (≤ 30 days prior to implant procedure) (required)          -  Implant Procedure (Day 0; all future follow ups based on this date) (required)          -  Pre-Discharge Clinic Visit (after pocket closure and wound coverage 0-5 days            post-implant procedure) (required)          -  1 month post-implant Clinic Visit (30 ± 15 days) (required)          -  3 month post-implant Clinic Visit (91 ± 21 days) (required)          -  Latitude-based Close-out (91 - 120 days months post last enrollment) (reporting only            required)          -  Unscheduled clinic follow-up (any clinic visit between pre-discharge and 3 month follow            up which is in addition to the 1 month follow up; per center SOC or subject needs; event            reporting only)          -  Re-implant/Revision (as needed)          -  During the trial unanticipated serious adverse device effects (USADEs), serious adverse            device effects (SADEs), adverse device effects (ADEs), DDs, all serious adverse events            (SAEs), deaths, and changes in the device system must be reported (enrollment to            Closeout).        Study Duration Enrollment is expected to take 12 months. The study will be considered       complete (primary endpoint completion) after all subjects have completed the Latitude based       close-out 3-4 months after the last study enrollment. All study required visits will be       completed as part of regularly scheduled clinic visits.
The preterm birth rate in the United states has been stubbornly stuck at 10.5% or higher       since the 1950's. The 2011 rate, 11.72%, is the most recent level available. That comes to       about a half a million preterm births per year in the United States alone.        Premature birth and the attendant complications are among the greatest health problems in the       world today and contribute to about 85% of all neonatal deaths, that is, deaths of infants       from the time of birth until1 month old.        During the past ten years, there has been developed a novel method to effectively and       objectively inhibit uterine contractility during the birthing process.        The method is nonpharmaceutical, and thus, avoids systemic side effects and has the potential       to be noninvasive and easy to master.        This method uses an electrical intervention (EI)/uterine pacemaker device that will allow for       rapid and reversible inhibition of preterm uterine contractions and preterm birth.        The following is a brief account of the electrical properties of the myometrium and why these       properties may be affected by electrical intervention (EI).        The contractile activity of the uterus is a direct consequence of the underlying electrical       activity in the myometrial cells. The sequence of contraction and relaxation of the       myometrium results from the cyclic depolarization and repolarization of the membranes of the       muscle cells.        The uterus at term has been shown to be myogenic just like the heart. The uterus will       contract spontaneously without neuronal control, like the heart, and form gap junctions       interconnecting the cells just like the syncytium of the heart. Also, both are excitable       tissues with similar current flows.        Electrical Intervention (EI) has successfully inhibited myometrial or uterine contractions in       many different species e.g. sheep, rabbit, rat, and human (in vitro). The EI was effective in       live animals when used on the uterus either directly attached or transvaginally.        The electrical pacemaker (Inch Inc., Brooklyn, NY) used in this work is a self-contained       portable device with integrated circuits, housed in a box about eight inches on all sides. EI       is delivered as 10-second bursts of bipolar, constant-current, square-wave pulses in 20% duty       cycles. A 20% duty cycle consists of a pulse of current at the given amperage lasting 20% of       the cycle, followed by a period without current for the remaining 80% of the cycle. The       number of cycles per second defines the frequency in Hertz (Hz). Because the duty cycle is       constant at 20%, a 10-second burst always delivers current for a total of 2 seconds, with the       frequency determining the length and number of individual pulses, in milliseconds (msec),       during the burst.        Participants were enrolled beginning in February 2005. IRB approval was in place at New York       Downtown Hospital, Manhattan, NY, from inception until March 2013, when it ceased to be a       study site. During the study period at Downtown Hospital, 3 participants overall were       enrolled and studied. St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Center, Manhattan, NY, became a study       site when it received IRB approval in January 2010 and at present is the only study site, and       has continuing IRB approval. While under IRB approval, 5 patients have been enrolled and       studied at St. Luke's and Roosevelt. Each participant has given written informed consent. To       date, 53 women have been recruited overall, and 8 have given informed consent and been       studied.        Those studied are females 18 years old or older, between 24-34 weeks gestation, have a       reassuring fetal heart rate (FHR) tracing, and in preterm labor as defined by the American       College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG). The participants must have persistent uterine       contractions, with 4 every 20 minutes or 8 every 60 minutes, and any one or more of the       following: documented cervical change, > 1 cm cervical dilation, or > 80% cervical       effacement. The exclusion criteria are the same as for most tocolytic therapy; most       importantly, premature rupture of the membranes (PROM), and additionally, severe       preeclampsia, severe abruption placenta, chorioamnionitis, fetal death, fetal anomaly       incompatible with life, severe fetal growth restriction or estimated fetal weight (EFW) <5%,       mature fetal lung studies, maternal cardiac arrhythmias, a permanent cardiac pacemaker, a       fetal cardiac arrhythmia, or any other contraindication for tocolysis.        The women have a pacemaker electrode placed vaginally. A 5 (1.67mm) or 6 (2.00mm) French       electrode catheter with distal 4x2mm platinum alloy rings 5mm apart (C. R. Bard, Inc.,       Lowell, MA, USA) is manually placed into the posterior vaginal fornix next to the external       cervical os. The catheter's proximal end is taped to the patient's thigh and its connecting       cable attached to the pacemaker, which can generate a weak bipolar electrical current (0-20       mA, 0-50 msec/pulse, 50 Hz). In the study, the EI current is increased slowly, as needed, up       to a maximum of 17 mA.        The human study begins immediately after placing the catheter and lasts 60 minutes; FHR,       uterine contraction timing, and subjective contraction amplitude are monitored during the       entire study. The first 20 minutes are the control contraction period (C1). The second 20       minutes are the EI period, with a 10-second burst of current administered just prior to each       expected contraction; expected contractions are determined by the timing of the C1       contractions and/or by the rise of the subjective tocodynamometer tracing above baseline       levels. The third 20 minutes is the post-intervention control contraction period (C2). The       contraction intervals, the times between contraction peaks (P-P), were measured in minutes       for C1, EI, and C2. All statistical analyses for the human study have been performed using       Statistical Analysis System (SAS) software (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA) Version 9.2.       For each period, C1, E1, and C2, the mean minutes between contractions are estimated, using       the mixed-model analysis of variance (ANOVA) to account for both within-subject and       between-subject variability. Pairwise differences between mixed-model ANOVA means and       corresponding p-values testing for difference from zero were estimated. All hypothesis       testing is performed at the 0.05 level of significance.
Patients included are part of a program developed by the Spinal Cord Injury Unit of the       Institut Guttmann of placement and strengthening of the diaphragm with NeuRx® Diaphragm       Pacing Stimulation (DPS) System (Synapse Biomedical, Oberlin, OH, USA) device for patients       suffering from neuromuscular disorders or upper spinal cord injuries dependent on MV. All of       them were preselected by a multidisciplinary expert committee after the assessment of their       clinical history and the evaluation of the phrenic nerve function using two complementary       techniques like phrenic nerve stimulation and fluoroscopic evaluation of diaphragm movement.       Pediatric patients were the exception, since they underwent surgery in order to obtain a       definitive diagnosis on the phrenic nerve functionality. Patients were admitted in the center       24 hours prior to the intervention.        The surgical procedure of DP implantation consists in placing four intramuscular electrodes,       two in each hemidiaphragm, using a conventional abdominal laparoscopy with carbon dioxide       insufflation at 10 L/minute speed and pressure up to 15 mmHg. Four ports are inserted: one       for the optical equipment, two for the mapping electrode and electrode insertion instruments       and a smaller sized port as an exit site for the wires of the electrodes. Reverse       Trendelenburg position is required for the procedure. It consists in locating the optimum       point for electrode insertion. The process involves mapping between 30 and 50 different       points in each hemidiaphragm by applying an electric stimulus of 2-24 mA at 100 µsec pulse       widths11. It results in both qualitative and quantitative assessment of diaphragmatic       movement: qualitative through laparoscopy and quantitative using the external assessment of       the intraabdominal pressure during stimulation with temporal mapping electrode. Site of main       electrode is identified as the location of each hemidiaphragm's change of maximum pressure       and site of secondary electrode as replica of main site. Once the sites are identified in       each hemidiaphragm, intramuscular electrode placement phase is initiated. Response to desired       stimulation is checked subsequently. Finally the electrodes are tunneled out to the       corresponding percutaneous exit site and an electrocardiogram strip is recorded with all       electrodes active in order to confirm there is no capture of cardiac rhythm. In the case of       pediatric age patients equipment and incisions were adapted to patient's weight and size.       However the surgical procedure was the same.        Upon arrival to the operating room, heart rate (HR), non-invasive arterial pressure (NIAP),       pulse oximetry oxygen saturation (SaO2) and capnography (Carescape Monitor B850, GE       Healthcare, Finland) were standardly monitored. In patients with previous history of ischemic       cardiopathology and/or difficult to manage autonomic dysreflexia crisis, invasive arterial       pressure was monitored through radial artery catheterization using the Seldinger technique       (Leathercath Arterial; Vygon Ecoven, France). In most cases no premedication was provided. In       pediatric patients prophylactic atropine was required for induction, it was given in doses of       0.01 mg/kg. Induction was carried out either intravenously with propofol in doses raging       1.5-2 mg/kg in adult patients and 3 mg/kg in pediatric patients or by inhalation with       sevoflurane in pediatric patients. After a prior priming of the circuit, a series of three       forced inspirations were carried out using reservoir bag at concentrations of 6% of the       anesthetic until reaching a minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) of 2.0-3.5%. Anesthetic       maintenance was carried out following anesthetist's criterion, with sevoflurane of 2-2.5% MAC       or continuous intravenous infusion with propofol for Total Intravenous Anesthesia (TIVA)       maintaining the infusion at 10 mg/kg/h for 30 minutes, followed by 8 mg/kg/h for another 30       minutes and 6 mg/kg/h until the end of the intervention, maintaining bispectral index (BIS)       value of 40-60. Patients were disconnected from their usual ventilation system and       transferred to the GE Datex-Ohmeda Aespire 3000 (GE Healthcare, Finland) system on volume       control mode, with tidal volume of 6 mL/kg, respiratory rate between 10 and 15 breaths per       minute and PEEP +7 cmH₂O with a mixture of O2/air at 50% in order to reach oxygen saturation       superior to 95% before initiating the surgical procedure. Given the type of procedure, it was       attempted to minimize the use of muscle relaxants, since these are not required in patients       with tracheostomy. Rocuronium at 0.4 mg/kg at the anesthetist's criterion was used for       managing the airway in patients who needed orotracheal intubation (OTI). In these cases,       neuromuscular relaxation was monitored (NMT Neuromuscular Transmission MechanoSensor GE       Healthcare, Finland) and a Train of Four (TOF) measurement of 100% was obtained prior to       administering muscle relaxants. OTI was performed when TOF answer was 0 and diaphragmatic       mapping phase initiated solely if TOF answer was 4 and with a percentage superior to 90%.       When these levels of response were not achieved, sugammadex 2 mg/kg was used to reverse the       blocking in case of induction with rocuronium or neostigmine 0.04-0.07 mg/kg.        Intraoperative analgesia was carried out using continuous infusion of remifentanil (0.5-1       µg/kg/min) until the end of the intervention. Surgeons infiltrated laparoscopic ports with       bupivacaine 0.5% with vasoconstrictor before incision. Patients requiring OTI received a       fentanyl bolus (3 µg/kg) in the induction and in all cases at the end of the surgery a       fentanyl bolus (1.5 µg/kg) was administered in order to avoid postoperative hyperalgesia       associated to remifentanil.        Isolated boluses of propofol (0.5-1 mg/kg) or fentanyl (1-1.5 µg/kg) were administered when       patients required anesthetic deepening for a correct tolerance of the laparoscopic technique       without using muscle relaxants. Patients received bolus of 5 mg ephedrine repeatedly until       normal values were reached if intraoperative arterial hypotension appeared, defined as a 20%       decrease of baseline or mean arterial pressure (MAP) inferior to 60 mmHg.        Patients with dysreflexive events manifesting as hypertensive crisis with pressure 20% higher       than baseline associated to bradycardia were treated using anesthetic deepening and/or       hypotensive drugs (bolus of urapidil 25 mg every 10 minutes) until reaching a correct       pressure control.        At the end of the intervention all patients were connected to their usual MV, either invasive       or not, with supplemental oxygen. They also received intravenous analgesic treatment in the       ward with paracetamol, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) dexketoprofen or       metamizole magnesium and tramadol as rescue medication during 24-48 hours.        In the immediate postoperative period, following protocols a control X-ray was carried out in       order to rule out pneumothorax. If present, it was drained percutaneously. Patients remained       in post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) for at least two hours. They were transferred to ward       while maintaining continuous monitoring of ECG, NIAP and SaO₂ during 24 h once they were       aware and oriented in the three spheres and the following criteria were met: analgesia is       optimized visual analogue scale (VAS) inferior to 2), dysreflexive events and postoperative       spasms ruled out, arterial pressure is normalized, heart rate to baseline values and oxygen       saturation higher than 95%. Stimulation of diaphragm was initiated in the ward during the       first 3-4 days following surgery in SCI and after one week in ALS depending on the medical       team in charge of the stimulation process. Correct conditioning of the diaphragm and weaning       from MV required repeated sessions. Surgical team carried out a 15 days post-intervention       follow-up and given that it was a neuroprosthesis, they also did follow-ups one month and one       year after the surgery. Once patients were released, the team in charge of neurostimulation       carried out postoperative follow-ups at three, six and twelve months. Subsequently they       conducted annual controls.        The information compiled included demographic data, ASA classification, diagnostic that led       to device placement, chronically used MV type and tracheostomy use.        Type of anesthesia administered was also indicated, including specific accessory monitoring,       drugs used, airway management, surgery duration and placement or not of permanent electrodes.        All incidents or complications occurred during the procedure were also recorded, whether they       were related to anesthetic or surgical technique. During intraoperative period there were       recorded any arrhythmias related to electric stimulation during mapping phase, disadaptation       to MV or poor tolerance to the pneumoperitoneum (peak pressure > 35 cmH2O and plateau       pressure > 30 cmH2O, desaturation < 90%) and presence of autonomic dysreflexia crisis related       to painful stimulus (blood pressure > 20% of baseline or systolic blood pressure > 155 mmHg       and diastolic blood pressure DBP > 100 mmHg). As for surgical complications in the immediate       postoperative period, pneumothorax appearance was given special attention.
Introduction Atrial arrhythmias are a common comorbidity in patients with cardiac rhythm       management (CRM) devices, such as pacemakers and ICD. External electrical cardioversion is an       established method to achieve rhythm control in patients with atrial arrhythmia. A paucity of       data on safety and efficacy of external electrical cardioversion in patients with cardiac       rhythm management devices exists. Most publications are of older date and predominantly case       reports or case collections. Few prospective studies with a population of cardiac rhythm       management patients after external electrical cardioversion have been published in recent       years.        Thus, available data on the safety of external electrical cardioversion in cardiac rhythm       management patients lacks statistical power to accurately reflect the true hazard of external       electrical cardioversion in patients with cardiac rhythm management devices.        Rationale Electrocardioversion in Propofol sedation for atrial or ventricular tachyarrhythmia       is an established therapy. It is routinely used for patients with cardiac rhythm management       devices and the risk of device and lead affectation is deemed to be low. This assumption is       currently not supported by substantial and current scientific data, mostly relying on older       reports. No large, prospective trials with a population of patients with modern cardiac       rhythm management devices exists.        Aim of the study The aim is to systematically include and follow all patients with cardiac       rhythm management devices presenting for external electrical cardioversion, to analyse the       effects of external electrical cardioversion on leads and devices. Thereby, providing       reliable evidence and detecting possible SAE with a low incidence. Furthermore, to gather       information on efficacy and recurrence rate in this population, to examine the value of       external electrical cardioversion for rhythm control in these patients.
nan
In this study, patients are randomized to DDD mode, AAIsafeR mode, or AAIsafeR mode plus       atrial arrhythmia preventive algorithms. The atrial arrhythmia (AA) burden serves as the       primary measure of effectiveness.
The purpose of the study was to confirm the AT500 intervention pacing effectiveness data       previously seen in the ASPECT clinical trial and to gather additional data to understand the       effectiveness of the intervention pacing features. Specifically, the goal of the trial is to       demonstrate a reduction in frequency in symptomatic atrial tachycardia/atrial fibrillation       recurrence with the intervention pacing features in patients with a pacing indication and a       history of atrial tachyarrhythmias with atrial pacing leads located in the region of       Bachmann's Bundle.
nan
nan
Statin could decrease AF burden in patients with PAF.
nan
nan
BACKGROUND:        Permanent pacing is estimated to cost one billion dollars annually in health care costs in       the United States. Initially, pacing was primarily confined to ventricular pacing with       limited sensing, programming and pacing capacity. Tremendous growth has occurred in pacing       technology, making available dual chamber pacing with sophisticated sensing, pacing, and rate       control. These more advanced pacemakers are more costly and complicated to place surgically.        One of the most common indications for pacing is sick sinus syndrome. Initial therapy is       usually medical to inhibit the tachyarrhythmias (most commonly paroxysmal atrial       fibrillation). However, if symptomatic bradycardia results, then permanent pacing is commonly       employed. The appropriate type of pacing in this setting is not clearly defined and is       controversial.        The development of atrioventricular pacing was principally aimed at improving cardiac       hemodynamics and creating a more physiological heart rate control. Hemodynamic studies have       clearly shown the benefit of this approach in many patients, particularly those with       decreased left ventricular compliance in whom atrial activity contributes significantly to       cardiac output. Lack of synchronization between the upper and lower chambers of the heart       caused by pacing the ventricle alone can result in a constellation of symptoms commonly       referred to as "pacemaker syndrome".        The underlying mechanisms by which dual chamber pacing is purported to improve outcome is       straightforward; in patients with normal sinus rhythm, cardiac output is improved by 15 to 30       percent. In addition, a number of retrospective studies that have compared single chamber       with atrial-based or dual chamber pacing have suggested that the latter may prevent adverse       clinical events such as atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, cerebral vascular       accidents, and death. While none of these studies was a randomized trial, the literature is       consistent with a concept that dual mode pacing results in improved hemodynamics and a more       favorable outcome in patients with sick sinus syndrome. However, the data do not provide       definitive answers because of small sample sizes and methodological problems. A major       problems with all previous studies is probable selection bias favoring implantation of dual       chamber devices in younger, healthier patients.        Several small studies have compared functional status and other quality of life measures       between single and dual chamber pacing modes and have suggested better quality of life       outcomes for the dual chamber mode. Again, these conclusions are severly hampered by the       sample sizes, the lack of random assignment or adequate statistical adjustment to control for       confounding, use of outdated and/or invalid measures, and potential response bias due to       awareness of mode assignment.        DESIGN NARRATIVE:        A multicenter, randomized clinical trial. All patients received a dual chamber pacemaker       capable of either single or dual chamber rate modulated pacing. Patients were then randomized       to either the single chamber mode or the dual chamber mode. Patients with prior stroke were       pre-stratified. Clinical and electrocardiographic data were collected during a 1.5 to 4.5       year follow-up. The primary endpoint was either: first occurrence of stroke, or; total       (all-cause) mortality. Secondary endpoints included health status, cost-effectiveness,       cardiovascular mortality, composite of any of the three major adverse effects expected in       sick sinus syndrome patients (total mortality alone or first stroke or congestive heart       failure hospitalization), first occurrence of atrial fibrillation, heart failure score,       pacemaker syndrome, health status in women and in the elderly, and outcome of patients with       risk factors for pacemaker syndrome. Enrollment was completed in October, 1999 with a total       of 2,010 patients.        Quality of life and economic issues were assessed in patients at entry and annually for three       years. Questionnaire-based measures of health status and quality of life were compared in the       two pacing groups for the entire population and subgroups defined by age and gender. The       economic substudy measured the comparative costs, both direct and indirect medical and       nonmedical, of the two pacing modes in an attempt to determine the most cost-effective       approach to pacemaker treatment of sick sinus syndrome.        Recruitment started October 1, 1995 and was completed October 4, 1999 with 2,010 patients       enrolled.
nan
nan
nan
The maximum value of acceleration rate of aortic pressure rise can be named as aortic peak       dP/dt. It, likewise, corresponds to the maximum value of first derivative of aortic pressure       curve with respect to time.Notably, aortic peak dP/dt would be one of the principal       determinants of mechanical stress applied to the aortic wall. Hence, interventions aiming to       reduce aortic peak dP/dt levels may open a new therapeutic avenue in the management of       pressure-related vascular damages such as aortic aneurisms.        Since it is the principle determining factor of aortic peak dP/dt, changing LV contractility,       thereby LV peak dP/dt, may be expected to lead to change aortic peak dP/dt values in the same       direction. Therefore, reduction of LV dP/dt can lead to a reduction in aortic dP/dt. Previous       finding strongly suggest that widening of the QRS complex could decrease LV contractility and       correspondingly LV peak dP/dt value which may eventually lead to a reduction in aortic peak       dP/dt.        From biomechanical point of view, as potential biomarkers of pressure-related aortic damage,       matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of aortic aneurysm       because of the important role they play in connective tissue homeostasis. In particular, a       significant reduction in initially elevated serum MMP - 9 concentrations, compared with       healthy controls, demonstrated after the aortic repair in patients with abdominal aortic       aneurysm implies MMPs pivotal role in aortic aneurysms. Besides, due to an active degradation       and repair processes taking place in the vascular wall governed by the balance between MMP       enzymes and their inhibitors, MMP - 9, expression of which is predominantly associated with       disruption of aortic elastic fibers, can also be detected in the serum of healthy subjects.       Indeed, mechanical stress-induced upregulation of genes and their products stimulate MMP       expression in the vascular wall, which is responsible for extracellular matrix degradation.       Herein, we hypothesized that reducing the acceleration rate of aortic pressure (aortic peak       dP/dt) may decrease the mechanical stretch on the aortic wall which, may in turn, reduce the       expression and serum levels of MMP-9.        To this end, in the current trial, effect of the prolongation of QRS duration over a certain       period of time by short AVD permanent pacing on the circulating levels of a vascular       extracellular matrix degradation marker, MMP-9, was examined.
nan
Electrical intervention (EI) uses bipolar, constant-current (1-20 mA), square-wave pulses in       20% duty cycles. Women in active preterm labor have an electrode catheter placed into the       posterior fornix of the vaginal canal. The EI current is given up to 80 minutes while       monitoring tocodynamometric (toco) contractions and adjunct electrohysterographic (EHG)       activity while continuously monitoring maternal vital signs, fetal heart rate and       electrocardiogram (fECG). The study includes a pre-EI control period (C1); the EI period,       when a 10-second current burst is delivered only during a contraction; and a post-EI control       period (C2). The whole study will take a maximum of two hours.        The uterine toco contraction frequency and adjunct EHG electrical activity are analyzed for       changes caused by EI. Changes in maternal vital signs, fetal heart rate and fECG will       determine EI side-effects.
nan
Permanent His Bundle Pacing (HBP) is a well-known method of cardiac pacing which is       increasingly used in everyday practice. After lead implantation in His Bundle area (HBA)       capture of various tissues can be achieved: A. right ventricular myocardium near to HBP; B.       cardiac conduction system selectively or nonselectively (with concomitant regional myocardium       activation). The different excitability and refractory periods decide which tissue,       myocardium or/and the conduction system is effectively paced. A lot of clinical trials       revealed the advantage of HBP over apical ventricular pacing (AVP). HBP improves clinical       (NYHA, quality of life, hospitalization rate) and echocardiographic (left ventricular       dimension and ejection fraction) indicators of heart failure.        We are going to compare mechanical and electrical synchrony during the various type of       myocardium activation: HBP (nsHBP or sHBP), RV pacing near HBA and native heart rhythm (if       possible) in each patient recruited to the study. Adequate pacemaker programming will allow       achieving different activations as shown above. The mechanical synchrony will be estimated by       transthoracic echocardiography and the electrical one by the detailed analysis of ECG.
nan
This is a prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, randomized controlled trial (RCT).        400 patients who meet the study eligibility criteria and consent for enrollment will be       randomized in a 1:1 ratio to intervention with apixaban or control group with placebo. The       randomization will be performed by a computer generated block randomization protocol. The       majority of patients will begin intervention with Apixaban or placebo at the time of cardiac       device placement (n approximately 300), and at least a quarter of the randomized patients (n       ≥100) will include preexisting CIED (≥6 months) in place. Each patient will undergo a       baseline MRI and a comprehensive cognitive screening examination. Repeat MRI and cognitive       assessment will be performed at a follow-up period of two years from date of randomization       (or less if clinical stroke/TIA occurs prior to this follow-up period). All subjects will       receive a phone call at 6 months, 12 months, and 18 months post-randomization to assess for       endpoints and adverse events, as well as changes in clinical status, medications, and to       assess study medication compliance.
Patients receiving a pacemaker or defibrillator are currently given Bupivacaine, Lidocaine,       or a mixture of the two for local anesthetic treatment (in addition to general anesthesia).       The choice of local anesthetic to be used during surgery is based primarily on the       differences in time for the anesthetic to take effect and duration thereafter. Lidocaine       typically works in less than 1 minute and lasts approximately 45 minutes. Bupivacaine works       within 2 to 3 minutes and lasts 4 to 6 hours. Lidocaine is often preferable due to its       shorter time of effectiveness. However, its relatively short duration may translate into a       higher use of narcotics for pain management during postoperative care - particularly within       the first hour following emergence from general anesthesia. Therefore it is conceivable that       these patients would have higher levels of pain, higher cost of care related to cost of       narcotics, and higher cost of caregiver time required to administer them.
With an aging population and growing indications for both MRI and CIEDs, it is estimated that       patients with a CIED will have up to a 75% likelihood to meet some indication for MRI during       their lifetime. MRI in patients with CIEDs has been increasingly shown to be a viable option       in a variety of clinical circumstances under strict protocols and close monitoring. It is       uncertain if MRI results in myocardial injury. Injury could occur due to heating of the       lead(s) with myocardial heating and injury occurring at the lead tip.        A previous Mayo study published in 2016 showed no significant changes in cardiac troponin       levels in the majority of patients with a CIED when MRI was performed. This study however was       done using the older, less sensitive troponin assay. Unpublished data from the Mayo ED showed       an increase in diagnosis of acute myocardial injury from 39% to 62% after implementation of       the new hs-cTnT assay, reflecting its increased sensitivity. The previous Mayo study was also       a retrospective study, and thus the data gathered was not as rigorously controlled as might       be ideal.
nan
The Optimize RV Follow-Up Selective Site Pacing Clinical Trial is open to subjects that were       previously enrolled in the Optimize RV Selective Site Pacing Clinical Trial.
This study is a double-blind, randomized, cross-over study of patients with congestive heart       failure and a heart rate dependent on a permanent pacemaker. Thus, at all times the heart       rate can be maintained at a set rate by adjusting the settings of the pacemaker. Acute and       chronic effects of heart rates of 60, 75, and 90 beats per minute will be evaluated by       primarily comparing cardiopulmonary exercise tests and radionuclide ventriculography scans.        Inclusion Criteria:        Patients must have symptomatic congestive heart failure, NYHA Class II to IV symptoms and an       ejection fraction < 40% by nuclear ventriculography within the previous 6 months. Patients       must be stable with no change in dosage on conventional therapy (including digoxin,       diuretics, ACE inhibitors, hydralazine, nitrates, angiotensin II receptor blockers and/or       beta blocker) for at least 4 weeks. Because only heart rate is being evaluated, stable       treatment with beta blockade should not prevent evaluation of the effects of changing heart       rate.        Patients must have an intrinsic cardiac rate < 60 beats per minute and a functioning       permanent pacemaker.        Exclusion Criteria:          1. active alcohol or illicit drug use          2. myocardial infarction or unstable angina within the previous 3 months          3. obstructive valvular disease          4. exercise induced sustained arrhythmias or symptomatic myocardial ischemia          5. pregnancy          6. psychiatric disorder          7. non-compliance with medical regimen        Assessment for eligibility:        Patients who appear eligible based upon the prior inclusion and exclusion criteria will be       further evaluated for eligibility as follows:        After signing a consent form but prior to randomization and enrollment, the pacemaker rate       will be set at 60 and then a 24 hour assessment by Holter monitor will be obtained. Patients       will be eligible for the study if they are paced at least 75% of the time. For rate       responsive pacemakers, the pacemaker will be set at a lower rate of 60 and an upper rate of       80. Patients will need to be paced at a rate of 60 beats per minute at least 75% of the time       for these patients as well.        A symptom limited maximal exercise tolerance with measurement of peak oxygen consumption       (VO2) will be performed to assess patient's maximal aerobic capacity. The Naughton protocol       will be used. Exercise will continue until limiting symptoms are present, but will be stopped       if patient develops sustained arrhythmia, cyanosis, dizziness, decrease in blood pressure or       an ataxic gait. Patients who develop angina or claudication limiting exercise capacity will       be excluded from further evaluation or participation. Peak oxygen consumption on this test       must be < 20 ml/kg/min for a patient to be eligible for this study.        Chronic Study        Randomization:        This study will be a three period crossover study. Patients initially will be randomly       assigned to be paced at a rate of 60, 75, or 90 BPM for 2 consecutive months. Patients with       rate responsive pacemakers will be set at an upper limit of 20 beats above their assigned       rate. At the end of this period, patients will have end point measurements obtained and then       will be randomized to one of the other heart rates for another 2 consecutive months.       Following repeat end point measurements at the end of this period, patients will then be       randomized to the final heart rate for 2 consecutive months with repeat measurements at the       end.        End Point Measurements:        The following tests will be done at the end of each of the three two month periods to assess       the effect of heart rate on ventricular function, functional status and exercise capacity.          1. Nuclear ventriculography (MUGA): Equilibrium gated blood pool will be completed            according to standard protocol, under the supervision of Dr. Eliot Siegel. Ejection            fraction will be calculated.          2. Six minute walk: All patients will have their submaximal exercise capacity evaluated by            a 6 minute walk. This test is performed on a 100 foot hallway. Patients are instructed            to walk from end to end repeatedly at a comfortable pace while attempting to cover as            much ground as possible. After 6 minutes the distance covered is measured to the nearest            foot.          3. Maximal exercise tolerance and peak oxygen consumption: This will be assessed in all            patients at baseline and at the end of each 2 month period. Patients will be exercised            to exhaustion on a motorized treadmill using a Naughton Protocol. Heart rate and rhythm            will be monitored continuously while blood pressure will be measured every 2 minutes.            Oxygen consumption, C02 production and respiratory quotient will be calculated every 20            seconds using breath by breath analysis.        Acute Studies Effect of Heart Rate on Ejection Fraction Acute studies will be performed to       help differentiate the effect of changes in heart rate on left ventricular ejection fraction       from changes in cardiac performance and contractility. Acutely, ejection fraction might       change because of alterations in preload and afterload, which might not reflect the long term       effects on contractility.        At the end of the first 2 month period, the patient will have nuclear ventriculography (as       detailed above) to evaluate ejection fraction. At that time the pacemaker rate will be       changed in a random manner to the two other heart rates. Ten minutes after each adjustment,       an ejection fraction will be calculated.        Effect of Heart Rate on Exercise Performance:        The purpose of this study is to look at the acute effect of changes in heart rate on exercise       performance. This will differentiate exercise effects induced by the change in heart rate on       contractility from the acute effects of changing heart rate. Twenty four hours following       randomization of patients to the first heart rate, they will have an exercise tolerance test.       As previously indicated, the effect of a chronic change in heart rate ill be evaluated       following each 2 month period. Subsequently, when patients are crossed over to another heart       rate, they will have an exercise tolerance test 24 hours later. This will follow the chronic       exercise test of the previous period by at least 24 hours.
nan
nan
Conventional dual-chamber pacing maintains atrioventricular synchrony but results in high       percentages of ventricular pacing, which causes ventricular desynchronization and has been       linked to an increased risk of atrial fibrillation in patients with sinus-node disease.        Patients with sinus-node disease and intact atrioventricular conduction are randomly assigned       to receive conventional dual-chamber pacing or dual-chamber minimal ventricular pacing with       the use of new Medtronic pacemaker features designed to promote atrioventricular conduction,       preserve ventricular conduction, and prevent ventricular desynchronization. The primary end       point was time to persistent atrial fibrillation.
Substudy_ In a subset of patients, following informed consent, additional data collection       will include annual NT-proBNP/BNP measurements, Echocardiogram baseline and annually and 14       Day ECG Continuous Monitoring at six month intervals.
Type and design of the study: Multicentric, prospective cohort, observational.        Number and characteristics of the patients: 321 patients to whom TAVI has been implanted due       to severe degenerative AS.        Duration of the study          -  Recruitment period: All consecutive patients undergoing a non-invasive diagnostic study            of amyloidosis (scintigraphy with technetium pyrophosphate99 and blood protein            electrophoresis) will be recruited before discharge, in centers with proven experience,            will accept non-invasive diagnosis with resonance) and have an implanted percutaneous            aortic prosthesis for severe aortic stenosis.          -  Follow-up period: clinical and echocardiographic follow-up will be carried out before            discharge, in consultation at three, six, twelve and twenty-four months.        Inclusion: 1 year        Follow up: 2 years        Data analysis: 6 months        Total: 3 years and 6 months        Events          -  Main event: cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death, stroke, infarction)          -  Secondary events: death from any cause, readmission due to heart failure, pacemaker            implantation, functional class evaluation        Countries and participating centers: Various Spanish and international centers will be       invited to participate.
Subjects found eligible for participation in the CS-03 study, who are indicated for a de novo       pulse generator implant at the center participating in this sub-study and who are not 100%       dependent on RV pacing are eligible for participation in this sub-study.        Patients receiving a pacemaker pulse generator exchange or who are 100% pacemaker dependent       may not participate.        Eligible patients will be provided with an Informed Consent specific to this sub-study and if       patients choose to participate, patients will be asked to sign the Informed Consent and will       then undergo the procedures described below.        Patients will be prepared and draped for the Moderato implant procedure as detailed in the       main CS-03 study protocol.        Subjects will be instrumented prior to the Moderato Pacemaker implant procedure.        The position of the RV lead will be tested at two sites known to elicit shortest QRS duration       (The RV apical septum and the His region).        A series of three test periods with the Moderato System programmed to deliver predetermined       PHC settings will follow.        Following the completion of these measurements, the conductance catheter will be withdrawn       and the Moderato System implant will resume as described in the CS-03 protocol.
This is a prospective observational pilot study to determine if stored data regarding heart       function, patient activity level, and other parameters can be used by the ED physician in       order to evaluate a patient's cardiac status as it pertains to heart failure. Patients       presenting to the ED and who consent have their devices interrogated by research personnel.       The data is printed and provided to the treating physician who completes a brief survey about       whether the data was useful in managing the patient.All subjects are contacted 30 days after       ED or hospital discharge to determine if they have had any ED visits or hospital admissions       during that period, and if yes, whether the visits were heart failure related. After all       study procedures are performed, a team of 2 cardiologists will review the patient medical       record from the study visit, as well as the data obtained from the patient's device in the       ED. Each cardiologist, who will be blinded to the other's conclusion, will determine if the       patient was having a heart failure exacerbation at the study visit.
Individuals with circadian rhythm sleep disorder suffer from recurrent patterns of disrupted       sleep that can significantly affect their daily functioning. Evidence suggests that vitamin       B12 supplements may have a beneficial effect on sleep patterns. However, research on the       effects of vitamin B12 supplements on sleep is limited. This study will determine the effects       of vitamin B12 supplements on circadian rhythms and sleep-wake regulation.        This study will last 47 days. Participants will undergo a 3-week medical and psychological       screening prior to study entry. Eligible participants will be admitted to the General       Clinical Research Center where they will live in a private study room for the duration of the       study. The room will be a time-free environment with no windows, clocks, television, or       radio. Participants will not be able to make or receive telephone calls, and their bedtimes,       wake times, and mealtimes will be determined by study researchers. Participants will be       randomly assigned to receive three capsules of either vitamin B12 or placebo daily. Blood and       saliva collection will occur daily to determine core body temperature and hormone levels.       Performance tests to determine participants' cognitive abilities will be administered at       regular intervals throughout each day. Participants' sleep will be recorded every night with       polysomnography, which will monitor brain and muscle activity and breathing patterns during       sleep.
nan
nan
The MARVEL 2 study is an acute, prospective, global, multi-center, software-download clinical       study. The study is planned to be conducted in US, Europe, and Asia. The study is expected to       be conducted at approximately 15-20 centers in up to 100 subjects to obtain at least 70       usable Holter datasets to meet the objectives of the study. The expected total study duration       (from first subject enrollment to the exit of the last subject) is approximately 6-months;       this represents the time necessary to enroll the target sample size of at least 70 subjects       with usable Holter datasets. Software will be downloaded into patients implanted with a Micra       device to allow the new algorithm performance to be measured in patients where a Micra device       has already been chosen as most appropriate for the patient.        Most enrolled subjects will complete the study procedures during a single study visit.       However, subjects enrolling in the study at the time of their Micra implant (anticipated to       be approximately 10 subjects) will have the investigational algorithm downloaded following       Micra implant, prior to hospital discharge, and approximately 1-month post-implant. This       subset of subjects with de novo Micra implants will allow the MARVEL 2 features to be tested       at multiple points in the device life cycle.        Since the download algorithm running in a Micra device significantly increases current drain,       a 2-4 hour acute study is used to limit the reduction in device longevity.
In this vanguard study, the investigators hypothesize that in patients with high degree AV       block and normal to mild LV dysfunction (LVEF >= 50%), patients undergoing LBBP will       demonstrate a significantly lower indexed LV end-systolic volume (LVESVi) as compared to       those undergoing RV pacing over 24 months follow-up. The investigators will demonstrate that       recruitment is feasible, LBBP can be successfully performed with reproducible and consistent       results, and that LVESVi will prove to be a suitable efficacy endpoint to inform the design       and proceed with the pivotal LEFT-HF study.
This study is non-randomized, prospective, interventional, multicentric study. Patients who       have been implanted with a CRT device between 6 and 18 months prior to inclusion and are       considered non-responders are eligible for this study. CRT non-response can be clinical (lack       of functional improvement or hospitalization for heart failure) and/or echocardiographic       (insufficient improvement of LVEF and/or reduction of LVESV). Among exclusion criteria,       permanent atrial fibrillation is of note.        Recruited patients will be submitted to an optimization procedure of their CRT device       settings. This will be performed with a non-invasive method using the Finapress NOVA device,       which records blood pressure with a digital cuff. The peak of blood pressure will correspond       to the optimal device settings. The first step will be to chose the best pacing vector. The       second step will be to chose the best AV delay. The best setting, i.e. associated with the       highest blood pressure, will be programmed at the end of the optimization protocol.        The patients will be followed at 6 months with clinical evaluation and echocardiography to       assess the conversion rate of non-responders to responders.
nan
nan
Cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) improves symptoms and quality of life and improves       the prognosis of patients with chronic heart failure. CRT works by improving co-ordination of       cardiac contraction, and is indicated in people with heart failure and left bundle branch       block (LBBB) on an ECG. The importance of LBBB is that it indicates that the electricity is       spreading only very slowly over the surface of the heart with each heart beat, thereby making       contraction very "dyssynchronous"; that is, instead of all the heart muscle contracting       simultaneously, parts contract and are relaxing before other parts even start to contract.        With a standard pacemaker, a pacing lead is implanted in the right ventricle. In those       patients with a normal heart rhythm ("sinus rhythm"), a second lead is usually placed in the       right atrium close to the heart's natural pacemaker. The lead in the ventricle can then track       the heart's natural heart rate as detected by the lead in the atrium, or, if the natural rate       is too slow, the pacemaker can sequentially pace the atrium and then the ventricle.        A CRT system is similar, but with the addition of an extra lead positioned to pace the left       ventricle. Now, the pacemaker is able to stimulate both left and right ventricles       simultaneously, restoring the normal co-ordination of ventricular contraction.        Approximately 25% of patients do not achieve significant clinical benefit with CRT. Such       patients are termed "non-responders", and lack of response is typically measured as a failure       to improve exercise capacity with CRT, or a failure of the heart to improve on       echocardiography. One option to reduce the number of non-responders may be to optimise the       CRT device by adjusting its settings based on clinical variables (such as ECG and       echocardiogram findings). Both ECG and echocardiogram optimisation give similar results in       terms of clinical response to CRT, but patients who had their CRT optimised using ECG       variables had a significantly greater impact on echocardiographic response, that is a greater       proportion of that group had a LV end-systolic volume reduction >10%) 3. Another possibility       for optimising CRT is cardiogoniometry (CGM), which is what the study aims to investigate.       CGM is form of 3D vector electrocardiography which can provide quantitative analysis of       myocardial depolarisation and repolarisation. Like standard 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG),       CGM uses different electrodes to identify electrical potential gradients produced by cardiac       electrical activity. The ECG can only visually represent this information in a two       dimensional way, whereas CGM can create a three dimensional display. Electrode placement is       important: and complex mathematical modelling is used to generate the displays. CGM gives the       same output as a standard ECG. One additional output is vector loop graphs. These are       sequentially plotted values of electrical activity of the heart in the x, y and z axis, in       three orthogonal planes. When the vector loops follow the same pathway it means that the       electrical activity of the heart is following the same pathway with each ventricular       depolarisation and repolarisation. By contrast, when there is abnormal electrical conduction,       the vector loop pathways can vary. CGM is useful for identifying stable coronary artery       disease and recognising the acute coronary syndromes, but its clinical value outside patients       with acute ischaemic heart disease is unclear. This feasibility study aims to see if CGM can       detect the different settings of a CRT device, by assessing the CGM vector loops with       different device settings.
Background Divergence of opinion exists regarding the efficacy of cardiac pacing in patients       affected by different forms of reflex syncope.        Definitions.        Severe syncope is defined when:          -  it is perceived by patient that it alters his/her quality of life, and          -  is unpredictable because occurs without, or with very short prodromes < 10 sec (thus            exposing patients to risk of trauma) or, if preceded by prodromes, syncope recurs            despite appropriate therapies (CPM or drugs).        Recurrent syncopes: at least 2 episodes during the last year (including the index episode) or       3 episodes during the last 2 years (including the index episode).        Suspected (undetermined) reflex syncope: the suspicion of reflex syncope is based on a       history of uncertain syncope in the absence of (i) severe structural heart disease,       significant ECG abnormalities, or rhythm disturbances; (ii) orthostatic hypotension; and       (iii) non-syncopal causes of transient loss of consciousness.        Study protocol          1. The eligible patients undergo firstly carotid sinus massage (according to the method of            symptoms); if a diagnosis of cardioinhibitory carotid sinus syndrome (CI-CSS) is made, a            pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.          2. If the carotid sinus massage is negative or vasodepressor, the patients undergo tilt            table testing (with nitroglycerin or clomipramine drug challenge); if a diagnosis of            VASIS 2B form is made, a pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.          3. If tilt table testing is negative or a form different from VASIS 2B is induced, the            patients undergo ILR implantation. If a diagnosis of asystolic reflex syncope is made, a            pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.        End-points End-point of the study is syncope recurrence after pacemaker (PM) implantation.       Syncope is defined as complete transient loss of consciousness. Pre-syncope is counted but it       is not an end-point.        Primary end-points:          1. Comparison of the time to first syncopal recurrence in CI-CSS and CI-TTT pts with PM and            in control patients with ILR.          2. Intra-patient comparison of the syncope burden in the year before and in the year            following PM implant in all patients receiving a PM (CCS, TTT and ILR groups). Index            syncope is not counted.        Follow-up One year after PM implantation for all enrolled patients for burden of syncope       end-points Until the study end for time to first syncope recurrence end-points. Thus, the       study ends one year after the enrollment of the last patient.        Study size Based on the sample size calculation the study will stop when 700 patients are       enrolled.
This study is a non-randomized, prospective, interventional, multicentric study.        Patients implanted with an Abbott ® CRT pacemaker or defibrillator since less than 3 months       are eligible for the study.        Recruited patients will be submitted to a non-invasive evaluation of different pacing modes.       This will be performed using the Finapress NOVA device, which records blood pressure with a       digital cuff. The peak of blood pressure will correspond to the optimal device settings        Three modes of stimulation of ABBOTT CRT devices will be compared:          -  Classical bi-ventricular pacing mode at nominal value and with AV delay optimization          -  SyncAV mode at nominal value or with left ventricular preexcitation optimization          -  Multipoint Pacing (MPP) mode, alone or in combination with SyncAV mode This is an acute            evaluation study without scheduled follow-up.
The study will be performed as a controlled, single-blind, international, multicenter,       prospective, randomized, parallel group design.        In order to pragmatically examine the effectiveness of biventricular pacing in patients with       an indication for ventricular pacing, the study group with biventricular pacing is compared       to a control group with standard pacemakers which only allow univentricular (right       ventricular) stimulation, as it has been the standard outside of clinical studies until so       far.
nan
Patients with AECOPD will participate in a rehabilitation program for one week. Participants       in the proposed study will be randomly divided into two intervention groups:controlgroup and       EDP therapy group. Before using EDP,the investigators will measure the relevant parameters of       lung volume , diaphragm electromyogram, diaphragm activity and other basline index. Then EDP       will be applied to investigate the effects of EDP on the above mentioned respiratory       mechanics parameters.
Pacemaker (permanent battery) is implanted in patients for many reasons. For reasons such as       symptomatic bradycardia and AV block, a pacemaker with modes such as VVR and DDDR designed       for pacing only when the pulse decreases can be implanted. At the same time, pacemakers can       be implanted in VR-ICD, DR-ICD modes, which have the ability to recognize fatal rhythm       problems such as Ventricular tachycardia (VT) / Ventricular Fibrillation (VF) and perform       intracardiac defibrillation (ICD).        Pacemakers are positioned by opening a pocket under the patient's left pectoral muscle.Cables       coming out of the battery (leads) are placed in the right ventricle, right atrium or coronary       sinuses via active or passive fixation through the left subclavian vein. In the early period       after pacemaker implantation, patients are warned to avoid movements that force the extremity       on that side so that the leads and battery are affected by extremity movements and their       positions and functions are not impaired.        Many pacemaker patients prolong this period too much (> 3 months), causing them to develop       left extremity muscle-joint dysfunction. This situation can also affect the functional       capacity of the patients.ICD pacemakers are larger in size than conventional pacemakers due       to their functions, so they are placed in a larger pocket in the pectoral area.These patients       are warned more strictly about coercive movements.        The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of arm ergometer endurance training on       functional capacity and upper extremity function in heart failure patients with ICD included       in cardiac rehabilitation program, and to examine the effect on battery and leads as safety       parameters.
Patients will be randomized into HM follow-up only (Group 1) or HM & in-office follow-up       (Group 2) and will be followed-up for 27 months.
Thirty patients who underwent CRT and had evidence of anodal stimulation will be included in       the study. All patients undergo a conventional echocardiography after 10 minutes of       continuous triple site pacing and after 10 minutes of continuous dual site pacing (Customary       biventricular pacing).Echocardiography studies will be performed to measure dP/dT using       continuous flow Doppler velocity profiles of mitral regurgitation, LV volumes and Left       ventricular ejection fraction. Left intraventricular desynchrony is assessed by using TDI.
Twenty four patients with IBS-D or IBS-M according to the ROME III criteria, will be enrolled       in the study.        Having meet inclusion criteria, the patients will be examined with Multimodal Stimulation at       baseline and at six weeks in the sacral nerve stimulation test period.        During the Multimodal Stimulation the patients will have impedance planimetry conducted       before and after a standardised meal to evaluate on their gastro-colic response without and       during sacral nerve stimulation.        The patients enrolled in the study will in the same time period participate in another study       evaluating subsensory sacral nerve stimulation. A study registered at clinical trials.        Here patients are randomised to receive either OFF-subsensory or subsensory-OFF stimulation       in a 2+2-week period followed by 2 weeks of suprasensory stimulation. Hereby rendering a       stimulation test period of a total of 6 weeks (a permanent electrode is used).
nan
University of Iowa is moving to begin the multi-institutional portion of this study by asking       for centers to assist with enrollment so that the investigators can meet our enrollment goal.       The investigators wish to recruit a minimum of 250 subjects and will collect data for up to       300 subjects. The research team will move to a retrospective and prospective enrollment       looking at how well ATP works in ATD therapy devices for patients who have CHD. No       interventions will take place as this is a chart review and observational study.
Hypothesis H1: Children with DCM. Ventricular dyssynchrony is seen in a majority (over 50%)       of pediatric patients with DCM.        Specific aim, SA 1: To describe changes in right and left ventricular function using Tissue       Synchronization Imaging (TSI),Tissue Doppler Imaging (TDI), 3D echocardiography and       conventional echocardiogram parameters in children with dilated cardiomyopathy.        Hypothesis H2: In the pediatric population, clinical signs and symptoms related to dilated       cardiomyopathy are improved with the use of biventricular pacing.        Specific aim, SA 2: To quantitate the effects of biventricular pacing therapy on ventricular       function in children with dilated cardiomyopathy using Tissue Synchronization Imaging       (TSI),Tissue Doppler Imaging (TDI, 3D echocardiography and conventional echocardiographic       parameters.        Research Design and Methods        Patient population        The patient population will include children (newborn to 18 years of age) treated for dilated       cardiomyopathy at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta (Egleston Campus). Patients receiving       pacemaker therapy and medicinal therapy for DCM will be included. For the purpose of this       study, dilated cardiomyopathy is defined as an ejection fraction (EF) of <35% with left       ventricular (LV) dimensions greater that 95% for age. Only patients with normal heart anatomy       and those with repaired congenital defects that have 4 chambers will be evaluated. Heart       transplant patients and patients who cannot travel to Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at       Egleston for follow-up are excluded from this study. Two distinct patient groups will be       examined:        Group 1: Patients with the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy. We will divide these patients       into two subgroups:        A: New onset DCM patients (defined as patients who have been diagnosed with DCM within the       past 90 days)        B: Established DCM patients (defined as patients who have been diagnosed with DCM for more       than 90 days)        Group 2: Paced Patients: Patients with a secondary diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy due to       chronic RV pacing who are being evaluated for Biventricular pacemaker implantation. This       group will also include patients with DCM who have received biventricular pacemakers within       the last two years.        The proposed study will be a single center, prospective, pilot evaluation of the ventricular       effects of DCM and the effect of Biventricular pacing for the treatment of DCM in pediatric       patients. All patients will be enrolled following referral 1) for implantation of a       biventricular pacemaker for the treatment of cardiomyopathy or 2) for a research       echocardiogram due to the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy without pacemaker therapy.       Inclusion criteria will be those children with dilated cardiomyopathy or children referred       for biventricular pacemaker implantation or upgrade with the diagnosis of dilated       cardiomyopathy. All participants will be required to sign an informed consent prior to any       procedures. We anticipate enrolling 50 patients between March 1, 2005 and February 28, 2006       for this study: 25 patients in Group 1 and 25 patients in Group 2. This will give us a       confidence level of 95% with a confidence interval of 4-6.        Procedures        Echocardiographic assessment Standard 2-dimensional, M-mode, and Doppler evaluation will be       performed. We will assess cardiac function using left ventricular shortening (SF) and       ejection fractions (EF measured by Simpson's Rule). We will also perform tissue       synchronization imaging (TSI), tissue Doppler imaging (TDI), and 3D echocardiography using       the GE Vivid 7 and HP echocardiographic systems. These systems will assist investigators in       determining ventricular function and synchrony.        In all, study participants will receive echocardiographic assessment at the following time       points:        Group 1 (new onset and established DCM patients without pacemakers):        A) Outpatient with the diagnosis of DCM (no pacemaker)-one echo will be performed at       baseline/enrollment;        B) Inpatient with the diagnosis of DCM (no pacemaker)-one echo will be performed within 24       hours of admission to the hospital, 14 days after admission or at discharge from the hospital       (whichever comes first), and 3 months 2 weeks after discharge from the hospital.        Group 2 (DCM patients with pacemakers): One echo will be performed at baseline prior to       biventricular pacemaker implantation, 14 days after admission or at discharge from the       hospital (whichever comes first) following biventricular pacemaker implantation, 2 weeks, 1       month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months 2 weeks after biventricular pacemaker       implantation.        Inter-observer variability for each echocardiographic assessment (methods and data analysis)       will be performed by Drs. Derek Fyfe and Tracy Froehlich in Non-invasive Cardiology.        Clinical assessment Clinical evaluation, including the collection of concomitant medication       administration, number of hospitalizations for heart failure and adverse events will be       performed at each visit. An electrocardiogram (EKG) will be performed at all study visits to       assess QRS duration. Heart failure functional class will also be collected at every visit       using the Ross or NYHA classification.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a diagnostic method to view high quality two and three       dimensional images of the body. However, magnetic resonance imaging systems generate three       electromagnetic fields that are used to produce an image. These include a static magnetic       field, a time varying gradient magnetic field, and a radiofrequency field. All three of these       fields interact with implanted devices and could create hazards for the device, the patient,       or both. Due to these issues, currently marketed pacemaker systems may be contraindicated for       use in an MRI environment.        St. Jude Medical has developed a system, the Accent MRI™ system, comprised of the Accent MRI™       device and the Tendril MRI™ lead, and an investigational MRI Activator™, designed to mitigate       such interactions.
This preliminary safety study evaluates the use of the Medtronic Activa PC+S system and       Medtronic Nexus-E system for central thalamic deep brain stimulation (CT-DBS) in the       treatment of cognitive impairment secondary to traumatic brain injury (TBI). It involves a       neurosurgical procedure in which electrodes are implanted in the brain, connected to an       implanted pacemaker-like device in the chest. The proposed study, if successful, will provide       supporting evidence for the development of a novel therapeutic approach utilizing CT-DBS to       improve these enduring cognitive impairments arising in persons with multi-focal structural       brain injuries. This research will address the critical gap of the lack of any available       treatments. CT-DBS targets well-defined neuronal populations within the central thalamus that       have known anatomical and physiological specializations, which not only provide a key role in       arousal regulation during cognitively-mediated behaviors, but also exhibit a particular       vulnerability to dysfunction in the setting of multi-focal, non-selective brain injuries.        Our proposed study aims to support development of CT-DBS as a novel therapeutic avenue for       accessing cognitive reserve in patients with acquired brain injuries. In the proposed       feasibility study of 6 subjects at a single investigational site, we will test the safety of       CT-DBS in the severe traumatic brain injury (STBI) population with GOSE 6-7 level recovery       and collect data to establish the translation of preclinical studies into human application       of CT-DBS.
Phrenic nerve stimulation from cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a common adverse       event occurring in 1.5-3% of patients and sometimes as high as 10%. Phrenic nerve stimulation       is frequently observed during the implantation procedure but often appears shortly after       implantation as well. Clinically, dyspnea, cough, and hiccups can occur, some of which are       uncomfortable and not tolerated by the patient for very long periods of time. Resolution of       these clinical outcomes requires repositioning the left coronary vein lead in a second       procedure with its attendant serious clinical sequelae. As CRT leads become smaller the       incidence of phrenic nerve stimulation is likely to increase.        The risk of phrenic nerve stimulation (PNS) exists during CRT implantation and is only       minimally dependent of the type of coronary lead and highly dependent upon location of the       left coronary vein lead in relationship to the left phrenic nerve and stimulation strength.       Tedrow et al. demonstrated in a cohort of 71 patients PNS can reach 16% if stimulation       strength is increased to maximize mechanical benefit of CRT. No current methods have been       able to predict PNS, the one likely method of preventing PNS is to identify the location of       the phrenic nerve in the specific patient, as confirmed by visualization and ability to       stimulate the phrenic nerve and by maximizing the distance between the coronary vein lead       position and nerve.        In order to reduce the incidence of phrenic nerve stimulation, Vaseghi performed       non-selective injections of contrast media and was able to identify the left       pericardiophrenic vein in only about 12% of patients undergoing biventricular pacemaker       placement. However, in these patients, identification of the left pericardiophrenic vein       provides a landmark for positioning of the left ventricular (LV) lead that totally eliminated       the incidence of phrenic nerve pacing.        The relationship of cardiac structures to the right and left phrenic nerves is generally       known but is significantly variable between patients. There is no imaging or other clinically       available modality that allows the physician to identify the location of the left phrenic       nerve and attempt to avoid it during the left coronary vein lead implant procedure.        The pericardiophrenic veins are a deep collateral venous drainage of the pericardium, pleura       and diaphragm and lie adjacent the phrenic nerves on both the right and left sides between       the parietal pericardium and adjacent pleura. The ostium of the left pericardiophrenic vein       is usually in the left brachiocephalic vein opposite the entrance of the left jugular vein.       The left phrenic vein is located in the general vicinity of the thymic veins which often have       multiple ostia in close proximity. There are several case reports in the literature of       inadvertent cannulation of the pericardiophrenic veins with Swan-Ganz catheters, central       venous catheters and one report of cannulation with a pacing lead leading to inadvertent       phrenic nerve pacing.        The primary goal of this study is to develop techniques to identify the course of the phrenic       nerve in patients already undergoing cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) implantation or       candidates for future CRT devices undergoing implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) or       pacemaker implantation. Specifically, the study intends to identify the location and course       of the left pericardiophrenic vein, and thus the left phrenic nerve, to guide the location       for coronary vein lead placement and minimize the risk of phrenic nerve stimulation.
nan
Rationale: axillary, cephalic and subclavian venous accesses are commonly used in pacemaker       and implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantations. Axillary puncture and cephalic vein       surgical cutdown are both recommended in international guidelines due to low risk of       pneumothorax and chronic lead complications. Sometimes cephalic vein is not available. Today       axillary puncture is performed under fluoroscopic view and some complications still exist       with this venous access as pneumothorax and arterial puncture. Axillary vein direct       visualization can be obtained with standard venography or with ultrasound. With direct       visualization and puncture of the axillary vein under ultrasound guidance venography with       radiocontrast could be avoided. Less radiation exposure for patient and operator and direct       visualization of the needle are possible with lower periprocedural complications using       ultrasound. Despite the great interest for ultrasound guided axillary puncture up today we       have few data on its feasibility. Our hypothesis is that ultrasound guided axillary access is       more safe and more feasible than the standard fluoroscopic technique.        We decided to enroll all the patients undergoing standard transvenous pacemaker or       cardioverter implantable defibrillator. We randomize the patients with 1:1 fashion to       axillary venous access under fluoroscopic guidance or to ultrasound guided axillary venous       access.        Obiectives: to asses safety, feasibility of the ultrasound guided venous puncture.        Main Endpoint: composite of pneumothorax, pocket hematoma, arterial puncture, pocket or       device infection, hemothorax at 30 days.
nan
Sleep disordered Breathing is common in heart failure, affecting around half of patients.       This may be Obstructive Sleep Apnoea due to loss of pharyngeal muscle tone (OSA, associated       with obesity and snoring and predisposing to hypertension, heart attack and stroke) or       Central Sleep Apnoea (CSA). CSA is particularly prevalent in severe heart failure and       associated with an adverse prognosis. The mechanism involves reflex hyperventilation due to       pulmonary oedema, exaggerated chemosensor response to hypercapnoea associated with increased       sympathetic nervous system activation and a prolonged circulation time.        It is known that CRT improved CSA in 'responders' but the mechanism is unknown. We hypothesis       that CRT normalizes the respiratory response to carbon dioxide (the hypercapnic ventilatory       response - HCVR).        We will screen patients undergoing CRT with an Embletta sleep study to identify a group with       moderate to severe CSA and a group with no sleep apnoea (controls). Patients will undergo       assessment of the hypercapnic ventilatory response with a Read Re-Breathe test prior to       device implantation and 6 weeks and 6 months afterwards. The gradient of minute ventilation       vs PaCO2 will be compared.
Patients enrollment were during routine face-to-face consultations, scheduled for PM and ICDs       interrogations. Investigators recorded before and after each BIA measure, the battery voltage       of the device, lead impedance and stimulation thresholds. The device electrograms were       monitored during BIA measurements to detect any electromagnetic interference or oversensing.
The Advisa MRI IPG is a dual chamber, multi-programmable IPG. The IPG is indicated to restore       heart rates, improve cardiac output, prevent symptoms, or protect against arrhythmias related       to cardiac impulse formation or conduction disorders. The IPG is indicated for use in       patients who may benefit from rate-responsive pacing to support cardiac output during varying       levels of activity and has been modified for use during an MRI exam.        Subjects will have required follow-up visits after implant, at 2 months, 9-12 weeks, 3       months, 4 months, 6 months and every 6 months thereafter until the study ends. The MR scans       will occur at the 9-12 weeks visit.
The aim is to compare, in terms of procedural success and safety, the procedure of       percutaneous balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV) without rapid ventricular pacing with the       same procedure carried out with the aid of rapid ventricular pacing.        It is a pilot study with the objective to enroll 100 consecutive patients matching inclusion       and exclusion criteria who are randomized 1:1 in two arms: in the first patients undergo       procedure of BAV without rapid pacing, in the second BAV with rapid ventricular pacing able       to help in balloon stabilization during inflations.        Efficacy will be studied analysing changes in transvalvular gradient from baseline to       post-BAV. Safety outcomes will be collected both at discharge and at 30-day. Other procedural       data will be object of direct comparison.
Patients with reduced systolic ejection fraction (40≤ ejection fraction ≤55%) and pacemaker       indication due to high degree AV block are included. The study has a randomized double       blinded crossover design. Patients are implanted with a standard right ventricle lead and       right atrial lead (if indicated), and in addition a His-bundle lead. Randomization is       performed as to which pacing modality is used during the first 6 months. After 6 months the       pacing modality is changed. Patients are blinded and endpoint adjudicators, including       echocardiography staff, are blinded. Device nurse and physician are not blinded.        Primary endpoint is difference in left ventricular ejection fraction after 6 months, paired       comparisons are used and each patient is their own control. Secondary endpoints include       complications and safety of the device/electrode, and quality of life.
nan
nan
There is an increasing amount of evidence to suggest that other positions in the heart may be       more effective than the conventional Right Ventricular Apex (RVA) position for restoring good       heart function. The best site to place a lead has not yet been proven.        This is a study comparing the long term clinical effects of two different lead positions. The       measurements taken to assess the clinical effects include:          -  the effectiveness of the heart's pumping action (as measured by ultrasound scans)          -  measurements of how far patients can walk in 6 minutes          -  analysis of blood samples          -  collection of information from the pacemaker about heart rhythm problems        Half of the patients in the study will receive conventional leads placed in the more common       RVA position in the heart. The other half will receive a relatively new type of lead placed       in what is called the Right Ventricular High Septal (RVHS) position.        In order to fairly compare the outcomes of these two different lead positions this study has       been designed as a 'randomized', 'blind' trial. This means that the group which patients will       be entered into will be chosen at random and patients will not be told which group they are       in.        Patients will each have an equal (50:50) chance of being in either group. By carefully       comparing the clinical differences between the two groups of patients, the study aims to       prove whether or not there are additional benefits for patients when the RVHS lead position       is used.        All leads used in the study have been shown to be safe for patients and are available       commercially for implantation. All of the implanting doctors involved in the study are       experienced at implanting the pacemakers and leads that will be used in this study.
This study is a prospective, observational study designed to evaluate the use of the Geneva       Healthcare Patient Population Management platform to detect AF (atrial fibrillation) in       patients with CIEDs (cardiovascular implantable electronic devices) in the emergency room       setting, and assess the feasibility of sub-specialty cardiac electrophysiology (EP) care of       these patients. This is a PI-initiated study and there are currently no plans to conduct this       study at any other sites.        The investigators plan to use the Geneva Healthcare Patient Population Management platform to       detect AF in patients with CIEDs and will utilize a clinical excellence team of nurse       practitioners and research assistants to ensure that appropriate treatment of AF is pursued.       UCSD (University of California, San Diego) has used the Geneva Patient Population Management       Platform for clinical purposes since September, 2012 at both emergency room sites at       Hillcrest and Thornton. The platform is not an experimental device.        After the patient's device is interrogated in the usual fashion by placing a wand over the       patient, with downloading of information to each device manufacturers interrogator, the       information is uploaded to the Geneva platform, where it is organized for a physician to       interpret. After the data has been processed and organized on the password protected system,       the data retrieved from the CIED will be uploaded to UCSD's electronic medical record system,       EPIC, by the hospital personnel. For the purposes of this study, the Geneva Healthcare PPM       (Patient Population Management) platform is simply a tool used to collect relevant device       data in the ER setting.        The investigators plan to clinically screen all patients who are evaluated in either of two       UCSD emergency departments who have any cardiac rhythm device. This ER screening will be       incorporated into standard clinical practice and will be conducted by EP staff. The goal will       be to detect all patients with AF and to refer them for direct electrophysiology evaluation.       Patients with AF will have data captured from physiologic and arrhythmia data collected by       the Geneva Healthcare PPM platform from the point-of-care interrogation in the ER (emergency       room) or by home monitoring.        A Clinical Excellence Team of physicians, nurse practitioners, and nurses will direct       identified patients with AF to appropriate treatment by referral to an EP subspecialist for       treatment considerations including rate control, rhythm control, stroke prophylaxis therapy,       and ablation therapy. The patient will be offered a clinic appointment with an EP       subspecialist. Patients who have been identified with atrial fibrillation will be referred to       research staff. If the patient is interested in participation in the main trial, informed       consent will be obtained by one of the study investigators or research coordinators. Patients       who are enrolled in the trial will be followed through their course of standard clinical       treatment for atrial fibrillation for 12 months, including both ablation and medication       therapy. Outcomes including morbidity, mortality, hospitalization, healthcare utilization,       and recurrent AF will be evaluated in all patients (including those who are taken to ablation       vs. those who are not). If a patient refuses to be referred to an EP subspecialist, the       patient will not be approached for research. The patient will be encouraged to follow-up with       any previous physician they have recently seen, including a primary care physician and/or       cardiologist for standard clinical care.        The investigators propose a pilot clinical excellence study leveraging innovative healthcare       information technology tools to capture patients with AF and CIEDs, and efficiently route       these patients for guideline-based treatment with a goal for appropriate radiofrequency       catheter ablation of AF and/or medical therapy. The investigators' mission is to evaluate the       ability to detect AF in patients with cardiac rhythm devices with this novel healthcare       technology, increase access to proper medical and procedural therapy for AF, and evaluate a       centralized repository for follow-up of clinical results and outcomes in this patient       population.
The term AV dyssynchrony was introduced by Salden F. and coauthors in 2018. It stands for the       adverse effects of AV dyssynchrony due to PR interval prolongation. According to the ESC and       ACC guidelines, severe first degree AV block is an IIa indication for permanent pacemaker       implantation, yet data on these patients' clinical outcomes are scarce. To independently       determine the impact of AV resynchronization, His bundle pacing will be used to avoid       intraventricular desynchronization.        Symptomatic patients with severe first-degree AV block and echocardiographically proven AV       dyssynchrony will be included in the study.        All patients will receive a dual-chamber pacemaker with an atrial lead positioned in the       right atrium and ventricular lead placed on the bundle of His. In a single-blind cross-over       design, patients will be randomized to AV sequential His bundle pacing with echo-guided AV       optimization or back-up VVI pacing mode. Each study period will last for three months. At the       end of both periods, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, complete echocardiographic study, and       clinical evaluation will be performed.        Peak oxygen uptake and echocardiography-based hemodynamic parameters in both periods will be       compared.
Subjects with CIEDs undergoing evaluation for TIA/stroke, HF or syncope will be reviewed for       inclusion/exclusion criteria. CIED interrogation, demographics and time of interrogation will       be collected. Review of interrogation and medical record will be done to evaluate for       actionable events including CIED programming, initiation or change in medications,       admission/discharge or decision for further testing.
Twenty two patients with IBS-D or IBS-M according to the ROME III criteria, will be enrolled       by invitation in the study.        Having meet inclusion criteria, the patients are first set subsensory for 4 weeks and then       randomised to receive either OFF-subsensory or subsensory-OFF stimulation in a 4+4-week       period.        During the PNE test the effect of the stimulation is evaluated by specific IBS symptom and       quality of life questionnaires (GSRS-IBS and IBS-IS) and bowel habit diaries.
Inpatients who are consented to have cardiac device implantation will be given study       information as soon as the decision to implant a device is reached. The patients will have       time to decide to participate in the study up until they are called for the procedure (2-72       hours, most commonly > 24 hours). The decision to participate in the study is conveyed to the       investigator in the holding room, and written consent is obtained if the patient agrees to       participate in the study.        The nerve block is performed in the holding room as a 2-step procedure by trained physicians.        After the nerve block approximately 30-60 minutes will be allowed for the anesthetic to take       effect prior to the cardiac device implantation procedure. The patient will be monitored by       the nurses in the holding room. Once the patient is taken to the operating room and prepped       for the cardiac device implantation procedure, testing of the nerve blocks is performed. The       superficial pin-prick test will be performed to determine the success of the SCN block, and a       deeper test will be performed with a 22ga needle to ensure the deeper muscular layers are       anesthetized and the PECs I block is successful. If both blocks are successful, the patient       will receive optional light sedation with midazolam 0.01 mg/kg based on their preference, and       the procedure can commence. If either the SCN or PECs blocks are not successful based on the       sensation test, usual care is provided.        Immediately after the procedure, the patient is asked to rate the pain during the procedure       on a numerical scale. Any adverse effects reported by the patient will be documented. The       patient will then be reassessed 1 hour after the procedure in the holding room and then       called the following day. One of the investigators will contact the patient by telephone on       the following day (24hr later), and perform a similar assessment. The assessment will involve       inquiring how the patient is feeling, documenting any unintended adverse effects, and asking       the patient to rate their pain on a numerical scale.
Purpose:        The purpose of this clinical investigation is to assess whether cardiac resynchronisation       therapy (CRT) can improve cognitive function in patients with systolic heart failure (Left       Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) ≤35%), when compared to a control group of patients       implanted with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) or permanent pacemaker (PPM)       with systolic heart failure (LVEF ≤35%).        Design:        This clinical investigation is a prospective, single-centre cohort study. The study will be       conducted at the Royal Cornwall Hospital Trust (RCHT) in Cornwall, England. Subjects will be       followed for 6 months.        Cognitive performance will be assessed in patients pre- and post-CRT implant (Group A). An       ICD and PPM control group (Group B) will also be assessed using the same battery of cognitive       function tests to ensure any difference in cognitive function which is identified between       pre- and post- CRT implant is due to the CRT therapy, and not due to a placebo effect (which       can be especially powerful with implanted devices) or due to a learning effect (i.e. patients       tested on the second occasion might improve their scores because they have had more       practice).        N.B: COGNI-CRT does NOT affect the patient's care pathway - the patients who will be selected       for participation are those who have already been referred for the device implant. The ONLY       difference to the patient's care pathway caused by COGNI-CRT is the addition of a battery of       cognitive function tests, which involves asking the patient questions and asking them to       complete questionnaire-like cognitive tests.        LVEF, NT-proBNP and New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification data which is collected       prior to device implantation and at 6-months post-implant will be utilised for analysis to       measure response to CRT and to assess difference between the main arm and control group.        Arms in the study will be:          -  Group A: Participants implanted with a CRT who are eligible according to the inclusion/            exclusion criteria          -  Group B: Participants implanted with an ICD or a PPM who are eligible according to the            inclusion / exclusion criteria        Objectives:        Primary objective: To assess whether CRT can improve cognitive function in patients with       systolic heart failure (LVEF ≤35%), when compared to a control group of patients implanted       with an ICD or PPM with systolic heart failure (LVEF ≤35%).        Secondary Objectives:          -  To assess whether CRT can improve cognitive function          -  To assess whether ICD and PPM therapy can improve cognitive function          -  To assess if the level of improvement in cognitive function correlates to LVEF            improvement / stability and/or NYHA improvement /stability and/or NT-proBNP level            reduction (CRT response).        Subject Population:        The subject population enrolled in this investigation will comprise of male and female       patients aged 20-89 years old. These subjects are patients who are willing to provide       informed consent and meet the specific eligibility criteria. A minimum of 198 participants       will be enrolled in this investigation.        Data for this study will be collected at:          -  Enrolment          -  Pre-Assessment for CRT, ICD or PPM Implantation          -  Cardiac Implantable Electronic Device (CIED) Implant          -  Post-Implant 6-Week Device Check (For device optimisation)          -  Post-Implant 6-Month Device Follow-Up Visit After completing the Post-Implant 6-Month            Device Follow-Up Visit, the patient will have completed his/her participation in the            study.        Devices Used:        Implanted CRT-P, CRT-D, ICD and PPM devices may include Biotronik, Boston Scientific,       Medtronic and St Jude Medical.        Patient Screening:        Patients who are referred to RCHT for CRT, ICD or PPM implantation with systolic heart       failure (LVEF ≤35%) will be screened prior to Pre-Assessment by the clinical team.       Prospective patients will be afforded sufficient time to consider participation in COGNI-CRT.        Cognitive Tests Used to Evaluate Cognitive Function:        To be Performed Only At Pre-Assessment:          1. Test of Premorbid Functioning (TOPF): TOPF provides the participant with a list of 70            words that have atypical grapheme to phoneme translations. The participant must attempt            to read the list aloud so pronunciation of the words can be assessed. This tests IQ and            memory as the participant must be familiar with the words, rather than being able to            spell out a word they do not know. It takes approximately 10 minutes to complete             To be Performed at Pre-Assessment and at the Post-Implant 6-Month Device Follow-Up            Visit:          2. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS): The test consists of 14 multiple-choice            questions, each attempting to ascertain about the frequency the participant has felt a            certain symptom within the last 7 days. There are 4 answers to choose from which range            from suffering from the symptom "nearly all the time" to "not at all" and are graded 0-3            depending on the participant's answer.          3. Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS): Consisting            of 12 sections, to evaluate 5 types of cognitive function: immediate memory;            visuospatial/ constructional; attention; language and delayed memory.          4. Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB): The test has 6 neuropsychological tasks which involve            asking the participant questions, for example "In what way are a banana and an orange            alike?", and learning simple actions in response to hand taps or movements.          5. Trail Making Test (TMT) Parts A & B: Both parts of TMT involve circles dotted over a            piece of paper, the circles for Part A are marked with the numbers 1 - 25 and the            patient must draw a line connecting the numbers in ascending order, i.e. "1-2-3-4-5-6…"            etc. Part B involves numbers and letters dotted around the page, from 1-13 and from A-L.            The patient must connect the numbers and letters in ascending order, alternating between            numbers and letters, i.e. "1-A-2-B-3-C…" etc        Response to CRT Measures will be measured prior to device implantation and at the 6-month       follow-up device follow-up clinic:        LVEF: LVEF will be measured prior to device implant to assess the patient's heart function,       and at the Post-Implant 6-Month Device Follow-Up Visit.        NT-proBNP: NT-proBNP levels from the patient's routine blood tests prior to device       implantation and at the Post-Implant 6-Month Device Follow-Up Visit where blood testing is       routine for heart failure patients every 6 months.        NYHA: A NYHA scale assessment will be performed during the screening clinics prior to device       implant, and at the Post-Implant 6-Month Device Follow-Up Visit using the standardised NYHA       questions designed for the purpose of this trial.        N.B: The above 3 tests (LVEF, NT-proBNP and NYHA classification) are performed routinely as       part of the patient standard care pathway for heart failure, and this data will be utilised       for analysis in this trial. The tests are NOT performed for the purpose of COGNI-CRT.        Device Optimisation:        At the post-implant 6-week device follow-up check, all efforts will be made to ensure the       device is optimised as much as is possible, and the patient listed for MDT if problems are       encountered to attempt to resolve problems.        Data Analysis:        Data will be tested for normality. Tests for group differences will be used to compare       cognitive function between patients before and after CRT implant, and in the control group       before and after ICD or PPM implant. Tests for group differences will also be used in       comparison of the LVEF values, BNP results, NYHA classification, QRS duration, percentage       biventricular pacing and BP measurements. Sample size calculations have estimated the       required CRT sample size to power the study to be 99 participants (with a 95% confidence       interval and a 5% margin of error). The expectation is for 99 patients to sign the informed       consent and complete follow-up = 99 CRT participants. The control group will aim to enrol a       similar figure to the main study group, a further 99 ICD and PPM participants. 99 CRT       patients + 99 ICD or PPM patients = 198 patients are expected to be enrolled and complete the       study.
nan
This is a retrospective review of all the patients that had an AICD or BiV pacemakers       inserted at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Egleston, Emory University, between January       1st, 1998 and July 30th, 2004. The goal of our study is to establish the prevalence of       beneficial and adverse effects in the AICD and BiV patient population.        Demographic, clinical and electrophysiologic characteristics during the hospitalization as       well as at follow-up will be obtained from the medical records and are summarized in the       following tables Note: We defined infection as elevated temperature above 38.1 C associated       with elevated WBC and positive cultures.        Appendix A        We plan to collect the following demographic information. Age Weight Delivery method       Gestational age Weight at birth Delivery complications Cardiac anomalies Other anomalies        We plan to collect the following medical information/diagnoses. Indication Cardiac arrest       Sustained ventricular tachycardia Inducible ventricular tachycardia Syncope Palpitations       Severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Congenital heart disease Primary electrical disease       Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy        We will collect the following AICD information. Lead Transvenous Subcutaneous array       Epicardial patches Generator type        We will collect the following outcomes information (AICD and BiV). Variable Appropriate       discharge (AICD only) Inappropriate discharge (AICD only) Lead failure Overall survival       Hospital Length of Stay Infection Blood transfusion/bleeding Hospital Re-admission       Mortality/Morbidity information Cause of inappropriate AICD discharge/shock Long term       complications
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is considered to be a progressive condition that starts with       episodes of paroxysmal AF (short runs of AF), progresses to persistent AF (can be reverted to       normal rhythm) and eventually to permanent AF. More than 25% of people with paroxysmal AF       will go on to develop persistent or chronic atrial fibrillation. The progression rate is       around 5% per annum. AF can result in devastating outcomes such as stroke/TIA and systemic       embolic events. In people with implanted devices such as ICDs, investigators can detect       non-symptomatic rapid atrial arrhythmia, known as subclinical atrial fibrillation (SCAF),       before it becomes symptomatic. In the ASSERT trial, SCAF was detected in 10% of patients with       newly implanted devices within the first 3 months. Of these, nearly 16% developed clinical       atrial fibrillation within 2.5 years vs 3% in those who did not exhibit SCAF within the first       3 months. During the follow up period, a further 24.5% of patients developed SCAF. People       with SCAF also had a higher risk of stroke and systemic embolism.        Earlier diagnosis and treatment of AF may lead to better prevention and outcomes. The       availability of serum based biomarkers that can predict the early onset of atrial       fibrillation, may help in the identification of patients at risk for developing AF early.       This would also allow the identification of the patient population most suitable for the       evaluation of possible future intervention strategies to prevent the onset of atrial       fibrillation, and alter its natural history and complications.        In this study investigators will study patients that have a new permanent pacemaker or       defibrillator implanted. These devices continuously monitor the patient's heart rhythm,       detecting any irregularities. Patients with these devices are followed up in outpatient       clinics on a regular basis. The information from the devices is downloaded at each follow up       visit and analyzed by staff in the clinic.        Investigators will recruit patients for this study 4 weeks after the device was implanted.       After obtaining consent, investigators will collect a blood sample for measuring biomarkers.       They will interview the participant in regards to previous health history, smoking, alcohol       consumption, family history and current medications. Investigators will measure the blood       pressure and heart rate. After one year when the participant returns for a clinical follow up       visit, another blood sample will be drawn for biomarkers. Any irregular heart rhythms that       were detected on the implanted device will be recorded. Investigators will also ask the       participant in regards to any illnesses and hospitalizations during the past year.       Participants' medical records will be reviewed annually for the next 10 years, to monitor for       any irregular heart rhythms, hospitalizations and death.
Study Design: This is an open-label, single centre, prospective, cohort study to assess the       effect of algorithmic, echocardiography-guided optimisation of CRT-D following implantation       of a left ventricular quadripolar lead.        Introduction and background:        There is now considerable evidence that cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) improves       outcomes and symptoms in patients with heart failure. However, around a third of patients do       not demonstrate any haemodynamic or functional benefit following device implantation. Earlier       studies have used a cut-off of 15% reduction in left ventricular end-systolic volume to       define response to CRT.        Failure to respond to CRT is felt to be multifactorial. Issues include:          -  Anatomical limitations in terms of lead placement (the lead must be placed within a            branch of the coronary sinus vein and therefore targeting to the site of maximum            contraction delay can be difficult)          -  Presence of areas of scar tissue, which are resistant to being paced          -  Phrenic nerve stimulation with some pacing sites. The phrenic nerve runs close to the            heart and may be stimulated by the pacemaker, with the effect that the patient's            diaphragm is stimulated and they experience persistent hiccups.          -  High pacing thresholds, which means that increased power from the pacemaker must be used            to create a successful pacing stimulus (capture) and that in some instances, capture may            not be achieved. This can be due to scar or to poor contact with the heart tissue.        Previous work has demonstrated that response can be improved in some patients by optimisation       of inter- and intra-ventricular dyssynchrony and atrio-ventricular delay. However, this       optimisation is limited by the fixed location of the leads after implantation, with pacing       possible from the lead tip only. Multi-site pacing (MSP) with a quadripolar left ventricular       lead has been introduced to increase the number of conformations available to the programmer       and is especially useful in reducing phrenic nerve capture. Additionally, multiple vectors       can be programmed sequentially or simultaneously, allowing for incorporation of a greater       number of myocardial segments. Quadripolar left ventricular leads are now being routinely       used in many hospitals. They offer new opportunities for optimising CRT-D       (resynchronisation-defibrillator) devices by altering the pacing vectors between the four       different poles on the lead and the two defibrillator coils to give hundreds of possible       pacing combinations.        Several recent studies have been published looking at the effect of multi-site pacing on       effectiveness of CRT therapy. Generally these employ limited vector combinations, but have       already demonstrated beneficial effects on haemodynamics and echocardiographic measures of       heart function. The evaluation of an algorithm that examines many more vector combinations,       including in combination with the right ventricular defibrillator coils, has not been       performed. The researchers propose to investigate this method of optimisation.        A gold standard for optimisation of CRT has yet to be defined. Methods employed predominantly       include invasive haemodynamic measurement and echocardiography. The ideal method would have       low inter-observer variability, high ease of use and rapid sampling rate to allow adjustments       to be made and evaluated quickly. USCOM, a continuous-wave Doppler method of continually       assessing cardiac output, has been successfully used in optimisation of CRT and has gained a       patent, however has so far been used to optimise atrio-ventricular delay only. This method       may prove a more accurate, rapid and convenient way to rapidly assess response to changes in       pacemaker parameters. The investigators plan to evaluate these three methods of assessment       and correlate with each other and with cardiovascular outcomes.        Hypothesis:        Use of an algorithm in optimisation of cardiac resynchronisation therapy systems containing       quadripolar left ventricular leads and dual coil right ventricular leads will increase       response rate to this therapy.        Study structure:        Patients will be recruited consecutively amongst those undergoing implantation of a CRT-D       device. At baseline, they will undergo assessment of functional capacity and       echocardiographic parameters as well as invasive left ventricular pressure monitoring. The       device will be implanted under normal laboratory conditions, aiming for a postero-lateral or       lateral cardiac vein left ventricular lead position. Algorithmic echocardiography-guided       optimisation of the devices will be conducted at the time of device implantation. Further       assessment will be conducted simultaneously with haemodynamic left ventricular pressure       monitoring and Ultrasound Cardiac Output Monitoring (USCOM) during device optimisation. The       devices will then be programmed with standard CRT parameters. Subjects will be seen at 12       weeks for echocardiographic and functional assessment, following which algorithmic       optimisation will be repeated with haemodynamic and echocardiographic monitoring       concurrently. Further assessment will be performed at 24 weeks as per baseline, following       which the study will end.        Study population: 24 men and women, 18 years and older, who are able to attend follow-up       assessment 12 and 24 weeks after implantation.
There is general agreement on the benefits of preoperative prophylactic antibiotics which had       been documented in previous studies. Concerns of bacterial resistance and unnecessary cost,       our prospective observational case-control study had suggested the redundancy of       post-procedural antibiotics. In this well-designed study, we sought to investigate the       efficacy of post-procedural antibiotics and confirm the hypothesis.
anxiety
nan
Aortic valve predilation aims at facilitating the crossing of the aortic annulus, accurate       valve positioning and does also provide information on the anatomy of the valve complex.       However, BAV has been shown to have a number of potentially detrimental effects, such as:          -  Functional cardiac arrest induced by rapid pacing leads to transient coronary, cerebral,            and renal ischemia.          -  In patients with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), prolonged cardiac            depression after rapid pacing is observed and may result in hemodynamic failure and            systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). Both are associated with a high            periprocedural mortality.          -  BAV has been identified as a major source of thrombotic and valvular material, thus            increasing the risk for coronary obstruction with subsequent myocardial infarction            and/or stroke.          -  The local trauma in the left-ventricular outflow tract caused by BAV may potentially            contribute to aortic root rupture.        The investigators aim to document the incidence of cerebrovascular complications,       paravalvular leakage and operative outcomes in a large, multicenter registry / prospective       controlled cohort study to identify associations between patient related variables and       outcomes.
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of upgrade to a CRT-D device on clinical       and echocardiographic response at 12-month in patients with left ventricular dysfunction       (LVEF ≤35%), symptomatic heart failure (NYHA II, III, IV-a), and intermittent or permanent       right ventricular pacing with paced QRS complex ≥ 150 ms compared to continued therapy with a       single or dual chamber pacemaker (PM) or ICD.        Prospective, post-market, international multicenter randomized controlled trial.
The rate of device malfunctions will be determined and a comparison to historical controls       will be done.
This study is aimed at looking at the effect of "Cerclage pacing" for the heart failure       patients who need cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). The study hypothesis is that       parahisian pacing by 'cerclage pacing' may have a similar benefit as is seen with permanent       Hisian pacing
MRI is the preferred imaging modality for both acute and elective evaluation of many       conditions. For example, for many diseases of the central nervous system, no other imaging       modality provides the requisite soft tissue resolution to support critical care elements such       as neurosurgical planning or assessment of intracranial malignancies.        Historically, MRIs were considered contraindicated for patients with CIEDs including PMs and       ICDs. However, studies have demonstrated very high utilization of MRIs among patients       eligible for CIEDs. In many cases, alternative imaging is either insufficient or, as with       CT-myelography, poses substantial risks or procedural hurdles that may be less favorable than       the potential risks of an MRI.        In recent years, a growing literature has suggested that MRIs can be performed safely in the       setting of CIEDs if certain precautions are taken. Additionally, guidance documents have been       released by professional societies including the American Heart Association (AHA) and the       American College of Radiology (ACR) outlining recommended safety measures that can be taken       to minimize risk and maximize benefit for patients in need of imaging. However, there are       fewer data on performing MRIs in pacemaker-dependent patients with ICDs, who were excluded       from the largest published study as well as the MagnaSafe Registry. Thus, demonstrating the       safety and clinical utility of performing MRIs in this context is of high importance.        In response to urgent clinical considerations, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center has       established a clinical protocol to provide safe MRIs in cases of compelling clinical       indications, with close supervision and oversight from Radiology and Cardiac       Electrophysiology staff. Thus, the investigators now propose a prospective study to evaluate       safety and clinical outcomes for patients treated under this clinical protocol.        Specifically, this study proposes to perform a prospective clinical trial in patients with       CIEDs that have a clinical need for MRI as outpatients to determine:          1. Safety according to the incidence rates of acute major and minor adverse events            according to pre-specified definitions.          2. Clinical outcomes and scan utility affecting patients' survival and quality of life and            treatment, including acute and longitudinal changes in device parameters, the need for            system revision, and proportion of MRI findings influencing clinical management            including medical or surgical interventions, and diagnostic or prognostic changes.
Deep brain stimulation has been proposed for severe and resistant obsessive-compulsive       disorder (OCD). This electrical stimulation has been tested on, and shown to be effective at,       different targets (subthalamic nucleus, caudate nucleus & nucleus accumbens). However, the       efficacies of each target have never been compared directly.        Therefore, bilateral subthalamic and caudate electrodes will be implanted in severe OCD       patients. Efficacy of stimulation at the different targets will be assessed using a       double-blind randomised crossover design.
Protocol CS-03 Ver 1.1 (NCT02837445) was amended at the advice of the Scientific Advisory to       protocol CS-03 Version 3.0 with more stringent hypertension inclusion criteria and different       observation intervals for efficacy and safety.        In CS-03 Version 3.0 the time of the primary efficacy endpoint was reduced from 6 months to 3       months post randomization which was deemed a suitable interval for the chronic effect,       whereas for the safety endpoint, the period was lengthened from 6 month to 12 months post       randomization to better monitor potential risks of the treatment on cardiac function       (Blinding period was increased from 6 to 12 months). Protocols were thus split in order to       allow better clarification to the difference in the time to the primary endpoints for       efficacy and safety between the two CIP versions and simplify data analysis.        Protocol Ver 3.0 prescribes data analysis of all patients randomized under version 1.1 to be       performed once they complete the 6 months follow-up as set in protocol version 1.1       (NCT0283744). It is expected that ~40 patients will be randomized according to protocol       version 1.1 prior to the enrollment of patients according to protocol version 3.0. The       results will be considered as interim analysis.        The recruitment for the protocol version 1.1 is now completed. Total of 47 patients were       randomized according to protocol version 1.1 and all patients completed the follow-up period       for the primary endpoint.        Patients are currently being followed up for the study "extension period".
Protocol CS-03 Ver 1.1 (NCT02837445) was amended at the advice of the Scientific Advisory to       protocol CS-03 Version 3.0 with more stringent hypertension inclusion criteria and different       observation intervals for efficacy and safety.        In CS-03 Version 3.0 the time of the primary efficacy endpoint was reduced from 6 months to 3       months post randomization which was deemed a suitable interval for the chronic effect,       whereas for the safety endpoint, the period was lengthened to 12 months post randomization to       better monitor potential risks of the treatment on cardiac function (Blinding period was       increased from 6 months to 12 months). Protocols were thus split in order to allow better       clarification to the difference in the time to the primary endpoints for efficacy and safety       between the two CIP versions and simplify data analysis.        Protocol Ver 3.0 prescribes data analysis of all patients randomized under version 1.1 to be       performed once they complete the 6 months follow-up as set in protocol version 1.1       (NCT0283744). It is expected that ~40 patients will be randomized according to protocol       version 1.1 prior to the enrollment of patients according to protocol version 3.0. The       results will be considered as interim analysis.        The recruitment for the protocol version 1.1 is now completed. Total of 47 patients were       randomized according to protocol version 1.1 and all patients completed the follow-up period       for the primary endpoint.        Patients are currently being followed up for the study "extension period".
nan
nan
nan
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia whom estimated prevalence rise       to more than 5 millions in the US. AD patients display progressive impairment of episodic       memory and instrumental signs including aphasia, apraxia, and agnosia, together with general       cognitive decline, death occurring 6-9 years after diagnosis. Up to now, no treatment had       shown consistent efficacy to stop or slow down the disease. Recently, it has been shown that       memory abilities have been enhanced by bilateral chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the       fornix in the hypothalamus, in a patient initially treated for malignant obesity (Hamani C,       Ann Neurol, 2008). This report showed that neuro-anatomic circuits involved in memory       processes are reachable and can be modulated. This modulation may have therapeutic       implications in AD patients with memory decline.        The primary objectives of this prospective, non-controlled, pilot study are to evaluate the       feasibility and safety of DBS in AD patients with mild cognitive and memory impairment, and       to evaluate the efficacy of DBS to slow down or stabilize this decline. The secondary       objectives are to determine which cognitive and memory aspects are improved, and the duration       of the efficacy of DBS on AD symptoms.        The inclusion criteria are: patients with AD (DSM IV) diagnosed less than two years, age       between 50 and 65, with mild cognitive decline (MMSE between 20 and 24), and specific       impairment of episodic memory (using the free and cued selective reminding test: FCSRT ),       able to give and sign an informed consent. Patients with associated DSM I axis pathology,       contra-indication to surgery or MRI, or preoperative MRI abnormalities will not be included.       Five patients will be included in a 2-year period.        The evaluation criteria for feasibility will be the proportion of patients undergoing the       procedure, chronic stimulation and evaluation process without adverse event (AE). Efficacy       will be evaluated using numerous cognitive and memory testing including WAIS, MMSE, ADAS       scales, TMT-A and TMT-B testing, language evaluation, FCSRT and Rey figure. CGI and IADL will       evaluate global improvement. Neuro-imaging changes after stimulation will be evaluate by       morphological MRI (hippocampal volume) and functional imaging (PET). Changes in behavioral       and mood scales, and changes in hypothalamic functions (clinical, biological and hormonal       assessment) will evaluate safety and tolerance.        Experimental paradigm: Clinical, neuro-psychological, biological and imaging assessment will       be performed 3 and one month before and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Bilateral       electrodes (Medtronic 3389) will be implanted, under local anesthesia, by MR-guided       frame-based stereotaxy, in the hypothalamic part of the fornix, before its entry in the       mamillary body (well defined on T2 weighted sequences). Intraoperative stimulation will be       used to search adverse effects or acute effects. Electrodes will be connected to the       generator (Kinetra, Medtronic) under general anesthesia. Chronic high-frequency stimulation       will be delivered immediately after surgery.        Expected results and perspectives: Spontaneously, neuropsychological scores progressively       decline with time in AD patients (MMSE 3-4 points decrease and ADAS 6 points increase per       year). We expect to slow down, or to stabilize these scores after 6, 12 and 24 months of       stimulation.        In case of efficacy DBS might offer to AD patient the possibility to slow down/stabilize       their symptoms, which no other treatment can currently offer, and to increase their quality       of life.
Biventricular pacing (BiVP) reverses intraventricular conduction delay (IVCD) and left       ventricular (LV) dysfunction in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). BiVP improves LV function and       cardiac index (Cl) at no energy cost. In the MIRACLE trial, in patients with DCM, IVCD and LV       ejection fraction <35%, demonstrated improved subjective and objective measures of exercise       tolerance and cardiac function with BiVP. BiVP benefits many, but selection criteria are not       fully developed, and 30% of recipients are "nonresponders," at a cost of more than $2       billion/year. Preliminary data suggest that BiVP can benefit patients with low output states       after cardiac surgery. This study will assess surgical application of BiVP while assessing       mechanisms of action and optimization. 190 cardiac surgery patients will be randomized with       LV dysfunction preoperatively to paced and standard of care groups. BiVP will be optimized       and continued postoperatively until patients are stable. BiVP will be assessed transiently in       all patients at three time points. The primary end point is a 15% improvement in thermal       dilution Cl measured in the intensive care unit (ICU). Effects of heart rate,       atrioventricular delay, ventricular pacing site, and interventricular delay on Cl will be       assessed using a randomized sequence of data collection. Secondary endpoints include       incidence of arrhythmias, inotropic support, urine output, weight gain, morbidity, mortality,       and ICU costs. These studies are important because of a high probability of clinical benefit.       The methods employed will provide precision, breadth of measurement, and range of pacing       sites superior to any other setting. The protocol will provide new and important scientific       information that will benefit not only surgical patients but also the general population of       BiVP recipients.
rationale:Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is increasingly used to treat       patients with severe aortic stenosis. However, by extending the indication for TAVI,       simulation may become increasingly important to improve procedure execution, safety and       efficacy.        objective: This study aims to assess the influence of FEops HEARTguide on overall device       success in challenging anatomies (Cohort A) or in transcatheter heart valve (THV) platform       selection (Cohort B).        Study design: Prospective, observational multi-center trial with 2 cohorts Study Population:       Cohort A patients with the following complex anatomy are included: BAV (Sievers 0 or 1) or       functional bicuspid aortic valves, severely calcified aortic valve and small aortic roots.        Cohort B consecutive patients eligible for TAVI with Acurate TM and Lotus Edge TM valve        Study Procedure: Participating sites identifies cases and decide if the patient is eligible       for cohort A or B. The pre-procedural CT-scan will be uploaded to FEops HEARTguide. Heart       Team decision 1 is according to the clinical routine, including valve type and size,       pre-dilatation, post-dilatation, preferred implantation depth and comfort scale level.        Heart Team decision 2 is after the simulation of FEops HEARTguide for the final       pre-procedural planning. For Cohort A, FEops HEARTguide will give their information about       sizing and implantation depth. For Cohort B, FEops HEARTguide will give two simulations, one       with an Acurate valve and one with a Lotus Edge valve.        The operator will make the final decision about the valve selection. After the procedure the       implanted device, size and depth are recorded as standard of care. The follow-up period will       be 30 days. A new CT-scan is recommended. However, this will not be mandatory for this study.
nan
Prospective registry including patients accepted by the heart team for a TAVI procedure.       Patients will undergo a prolonged continuous ECG monitoring using the CardioSTAT® device       after hospital discharge. Following the TAVI procedure, continuous ECG monitoring will start       just before hospital discharge and prolonged up to 4 weeks. There won't be any restriction       regarding the type of valve and approach used for the TAVI procedure.        All type of arrhythmic events will be recorded, as well as the specific therapeutic measures       implemented upon the diagnosis of the arrhythmic event.        Analyses of the CardioSTAT will be done at 2 and 4 weeks following hospital discharge.       Clinical follow-up will be performed at 14 days (analysis of CardioSTAT® record), 28 days       (analysis of CardioSTAT record), 1 year post-TAVI and yearly thereafter up to 5-year       follow-up.
The primary objective of this clinical investigation is to demonstrate that septal       positioning of the right ventricular defibrillation lead is not inferior to the apical       positioning in terms of safety and efficacy in a population of ICD recipients.
The benefits of rate-responsiveness on top of dual-chamber pacing still need to be       definitively assessed in Sinus Node Dysfunction (SND). Although many rate responsive (RR)       sensors have been developed, no large clinical trials evaluated their benefits in terms of       clinical endpoints such as clinically relevant atrial fibrillation (AF) and stroke.       Electromechanical sensors (piezoelectric accelerometers) have been widely used for their       simplicity and overall reliability. However there is some evidence indicating the Closed Loop       Stimulation as one of the more efficient and physiological sensors.        Two randomized clinical studies have been conducted so far, showing that in the Brady-Tachy       Syndrome the CLS algorithm was associated with a significantly lower overall atrial       arrhythmia burden as compared both with a DDDR mode based on a standard accelerometric sensor       and an atrial overdrive approach.        Both studies yielded consistent results, albeit with a parallel and intraindividual       comparison designs, respectively. The atrial arrhythmic burden is an important but surrogate       endpoint, not necessarily related to long-term clinical outcome. The CLS effects on AF (if       any) should be investigated in terms of time to first new onset of clinically relevant AF.        In the light of these considerations, it appears interesting to run a large randomized study       coherently collecting data on the overall clinical benefit of CLS, primarily in terms of AF       and stroke, in a population indicated for pacemaker or ICD and needing dual-chamber pacing       due to SND.
Twenty four patients with IBS-D or IBS-M according to the ROME III criteria, will be enrolled       in the study.        Having meet inclusion criteria, the patients are randomised to receive either OFF-subsensory       or subsensory-OFF stimulation in a 2+2-week period followed by 2 weeks of suprasensory       stimulation. Hereby rendering a percutaneous nerve evaluation (PNE) test of a total of 6       weeks.        During the PNE test the effect of the stimulation is evaluated by specific IBS symptom and       quality of life questionnaires (GSRS-IBS and IBS-IS) and bowel habit diaries.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1, Steinert disease) is a multisystem disorder that affects,       beside muscle, several other organs, including the heart.        Cardiac involvement represents a major problem in the clinical management of patients, so       that cardiac complications represent one of the primary causes of premature death in DM1. In       particular there is a high incidence of sudden death, ranging from 2 to 30% of cases, so far       principally related to the development of conduction blocks. However, literature reports of       sudden death in patients implanted with pacemakers, as well as of spontaneous ventricular       tachycardia would suggest a potential etiologic role also for ventricular arrhythmias. The       lack of clinical research studies conducted on a large number of patients does not make       available definite data regarding the etiology and the epidemiology of arrhythmic events in       DM1. For the same reasons, other considerable topics, such as prognostic stratification of       the arrhythmic risk and clinical management of life-threatening arrhythmias in DM1 patients,       are still undefined.        To clarify these issues, the investigators propose a clinical research study performed on a       large cohort of DM1 patients enrolled through a multicenter collaboration that also involves       5 cardiological-neurological Italian centres.        Aims of this study are:          -  To estimate the incidence of arrhythmias and to characterize the brady-tachyarrhythmic            mechanisms underlying the occurrence of cardiac sudden death in DM1;          -  To verify by statistical analysis the reliability of data obtained from both non            invasive and invasive diagnostic procedures as indexes useful for estimating the            arrhythmic risk in DM1;          -  To identify more adequate therapeutic guidelines in order to prevent the occurrence of            life-threatening arrhythmias.        The protocol of study includes:          1. Clinical-genetic evaluation;          2. Non invasive and invasive diagnostic cardiac procedures;          3. The use of devices for diagnostic and therapeutic follow-up.
nan
nan
Important improvements in aortic valve prostheses technology has been made aiming comparable       performance of these prosthesis to surgical valve ones.        The experience with the early generation of aortic valve prostheses revealed some important       differences regarding the incidence of paravalvular leakage, need for pacemaker or valve       thrombosis among them. Currently the new generations of valve prostheses such as Sapien 3       balloon-expandable valve and Lotus, repositionable valve are the most frequently used       devices. There are registry data about the clinical performance of these valve types but a       randomized comparison is missing.
nan
INTRODUCTION        Calcific aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common valve disease in the West with a prevalence       of 2.8% in patients over 75 years. Once symptomatic with severe AS, outcome is poor, unless       the valve is replaced surgically (sAVR) or via transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR),       which is predominantly used in elderly patients for whom surgery is deemed too high risk.        Systemic amyloidosis is a multisystem disease characterised by extracellular deposition of       abnormally folded protein, which over time results in progressive organ dysfunction. These       protein deposits bind Congo red stain, producing the pathognomonic apple-green birefringence       under polarised light. Cardiac involvement is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in       these patients. Amyloidosis due to transthyretin deposition (ATTR) can be due to wild-type       transthyretin amyloid deposits, also known as senile systemic amyloidosis, which       predominantly accumulates in the heart. Primary light chain (AL) amyloidosis and hereditary       transthyretin amyloidosis can also affect the heart.        Wild-type ATTR (wtATTR) amyloid deposition is present in up to a 25% of individuals aged over       85 at autopsy. To date, this has been no more than an academic observation, but technology is       changing this: cardiac imaging, particularly cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) and       99mTc-3,3-diphosphono-1,2-propanodicarboxylic acid (DPD) scintigraphy, can now detect the       disease antemortem, which is generating a major increase in national awareness. There are       also significant advances being made in the treatment of amyloidosis. There are several drugs       in clinical trial including novel antisense and interfering RNA therapeutics that can reduce       production of TTR by up to 80-90%. Also on the horizon are treatments to promote clearance of       established amyloid, notably including monoclonal anti-SAP (serum amyloid P component)       antibodies. Despite the prevalence of wtATTR amyloid deposits at autopsy, their clinical       significance and prognostic impact of in severe AS has not been explored.        Co-existent cardiac amyloid and AS. Given the prevalence of wtATTR in octogenarians at       autopsy, AS and wtATTR are likely to co-exist - the literature has early evidence for this.       In a cohort of 20 patients with AS, who had undergone TAVI and subsequently valve       explantation at autopsy (n=17) or surgery (n=3), cardiac amyloid was found in a third of       these patients and was thought to contribute to death in the majority. Our research also       supports this - the "RELIEF-AS" study. In 146 patients with severe AS undergoing sAVR, we       found cardiac amyloid deposits in 6 patients. All were wtATTR, all calcific AS, with the       youngest patient being aged 69. Comprehensive imaging was performed, which showed a       diagnostic imaging hierarchy: echocardiography was non-contributory, CMR detected a third of       cases, whereas DPD scintigraphy was positive in all four patients scanned (2 died before the       test). Biopsy ATTR deposits were prognostic and the strongest predictor of adverse outcome -       regardless of infiltration degree or its imaging detection: post sAVR 50% with wtATTR died by       1 year vs 9% without (p<0.001). Occult amyloid has also been implicated in the need for       pacemakers in TAVR patients.        The availability of TAVI has extended the range of individuals that can benefit from       intervention for AS, prolonging life. TAVR patients are generally older so more likely to       have wtATTR. One recent abstract found a 16% (23% in men) prevalence of cardiac amyloid in in       patients undergoing TAVR (n=75) using 99mTc-pyrophosphate scintigraphy (PYP, a bone tracer       available in the USA, which is possibly inferior to DPD). WtATTR is also an increasingly       recognized cause of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). DPD scintigraphy       in 120 hospitalized patients who also had LV wall thickness ≥12 mm and an EF ≥50%, showed       that 16 patients (13.3%) showed moderate to severe myocardial uptake.        Why detect wtTTR amyloid in severe AS? There are two separate aspects of wtATTR in AS. First,       wtATTR in patients with moderate AS may mimic severe AS, (particularly low-flow,       low-gradient) causing misdiagnosis. Second, wtATTR may itself be a disease modifier, leading       to a more severe phenotype with more heart failure, arrhythmia, and higher mortality. We       think there is a large, now detectable, UK population of elderly patients undergoing sAVR or       TAVR with a significant occult amyloid. This could influence therapeutic options (TAVR vs       sAVR vs medical therapy), intervention timing and medications - specific amyloid therapies,       drugs to avoid (e.g. digoxin and diltiazem).        How to detect wtATTR? There are multiple techniques that could detect cardiac wtATTR. Each       has their pros and cons with different evidence bases. Our initial study used three imaging       modalities and biopsy to detect the presence of cardiac amyloid in sAVR. DPD scintigraphy was       the superior imaging modality, with the highest diagnostic sensitivity. There is now a       rapidly growing body of evidence supporting DPD scintigraphy as the non-invasive       investigation of choice for diagnosing cardiac ATTR. A recent multi-centre study of over       1,000 patients showed that bone scintigraphy had a >99% sensitivity for cardiac ATTR deposits       and they proposed it should have a role in diagnosing the condition without the need for       invasive cardiac biopsy, which has previously been considered the gold standard.        The investigators have recently created a new modality: equilibrium contrast computed       tomography (EqCT), which requires a single extra image dataset of the heart to be taken 5       minutes after the routine TAVR work-up CT images are taken. Extracellular volume fraction       (ECV) calculated by EqCT discriminated 100% between cardiac amyloid involvement and patients       with AS in 53 patients.        TRIAL OBJECTIVES        Hypothesis:        In the elderly with severe AS being considered for intervention (TAVR, sAVR), wtATTR is:          -  Common.          -  Conveys a worse prognosis.          -  Can be reliably detected non-invasively.        Aim:        To confirm the prevalence, clinical impact (procedural complications, symptom response to       aortic valve replacement, 1-year mortality) and potential place of imaging (DPD scintigraphy,       ECV by CT, CMR and echocardiography) in occult amyloid in severe AS.        STUDY PLAN        Design: prospective observational cohort with 1 year follow-up.        Population: patients aged 75 or older with severe AS referred to the Barts Heart Centre for       consideration for intervention (sAVR or TAVR) or referred to the John Radcliffe Hospital in       Oxford for consideration for TAVR.        Proposed sample size: two centre study (Barts Heart Centre and the John Radcliffe Hospital),       250 patients.        Recruitment: patients will be recruited from General Cardiology, TAVR and Cardiothoracic       Surgery Outpatient Clinics. A large proportion of these patients are discussed in the Valve       Multidisciplinary Team Meeting, which will provide another source of recruitment. This will       take place over an 18-month period from August 2016 to February 2018.        Baseline assessment: will include clinical history, Quality of Life Questionnaire       (EQ-5D/SF-12), a 6-minute-walk test, blood sampling for haematocrit, renal function,       biomarkers (NT-pro-BNP and troponin), and biobanking (also for AL exclusions if scanning       positive), a urine sample for biobanking (also for AL exclusion if scanning positive), as       well as tests performed as the routine pre-operative work-up (clinical electrocardiogram,       blood pressure to estimate global LV afterload, valvulo-arterial impedance).        Measures of exposure: the prevalence of cardiac amyloid assessed in three arms (sAVR, TAVI       and medical therapy, with a likely patient ratio of 50:150:50), using five investigation       modalities - all cohorts (echocardiography and DPD scintigraphy); sAVR cohort (biopsy and       CMR); TAVR cohort (EqCT); medical therapy only cohort (as per work-up/trial prior to no       intervention decision).        Follow-up: 1-year follow-up with clinical echocardiogram (for sAVR and TAVR patients) and/or       telephone interview for all patients (if not carried out in person at the time of the       echocardiogram). This will include a follow up Quality of Life Questionnaire as per baseline.       If attending clinic or echocardiogram a 6-minute-walk test will also be performed. MACE and       mortality endpoints will also be identified.
nan
The primary objective of this study is to compare the effect of RV pacing site on LV systolic       function as measured by LVEF (left ventricular ejection fraction).        Secondary objectives of this trial include:          1. to compare the effect of RVSeptal(RVS) versus RVApical(RVA)pacing on other indices of            systolic and diastolic LV function          2. to compare the rate of heart failure-related hospitalization between RVS versus RVA            pacing          3. to compare new-onset atrial fibrillation and stroke rates between RVS versus RVA pacing          4. to assess the effect of RVA versus RVS pacing on quality of life and functional capacity          5. to compare the rate of successful pacemaker lead implantation, complications and chronic            electrical performance of RVS versus RVA pacing
Clinical investigations identified potential predictors for mortality and rehospitalisation       events in heart failure patients. A selection of these predictors primarily composes the       "Heart Failure Monitor" (HFM), which is implemented in Biotronik implantable cardioverter       defibrillators (ICDs) capable of delivering cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) as well       as in CRT-pacemakers. HFM and other parameters are transmitted to the attending physician via       Home Monitoring (HM) function integrated in the implanted devices. In the future, a HFM with       high predictive power may play an important role as part of a strategy of delivering       effective health care for heart failure patients with an indication for CRT.        Our included patients implanted with CRT devices STRATOS LV-T (CRT-pacemaker), KRONOS LV-T,       or Lumax HF-T (CRT-ICD). Pre-discharge protocol comprised standard device follow-up,       activation of the HM-function, and assessment of complications and cardiovascular events. At       follow-up controls 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after implantation, standard device follow-up       was performed and complications and cardiovascular events were assessed.        At enrollment, 6 and 12 months postoperative and in case of a rehospitalisation, the       following parameters are documented:          -  Echocardiographic parameters          -  Quality of Life (Minnesota)          -  ECG-parameters, NYHA-classification          -  Blood pressure, body weight          -  BNP / NT-pro BNP (optional)          -  6 minute walk test (optional)        At 1, 3 and 9 months postoperative:          -  ECG-parameters, NYHA-classification          -  Blood pressure, body weight          -  BNP / NT-pro BNP (optional)          -  6 minute walk test (optional)        Further documentation:          -  Change of drug treatment          -  Any cardiovascular event and therapeutic intervention          -  Heart failure related symptoms by means of patient diary
The leadless electrocardiogram (LECG) is a new technology incorporated into the Consulta       CRT-P to obtain an ECG signal from the Consulta CRT-P similar to a surface ECG obtained from       the device programmer (PECG) or an external ECG machine. The LECG signals are measured from       three electrodes mounted on the outside of the pacemaker housing and provides an electrical       far field signal of the electrical activity of the heart. The LECG provides three ECG       channels as different projections of the electrical activity of the heart, similar to the       surface ECG. Clinical interest of LECG is threefold. First, ECG recordings are routinely used       to perform pacemaker and cardiac resynchronization systems in-office follow-up mainly to       determine pacing thresholds. Connection of ECG electrodes to the patient as well as the time       needed to acquire an acceptable ECG signal during routine follow-up could be saved using LECG       which would make follow-up easier and less time consuming. Secondly, connecting ECG       electrodes requires the patient to be present at the clinic for the follow-up. Use of LECG in       conjunction with a transmitting system will allow remote patient follow-up. In that case,       correct ventricular capture confirmation by the LECG is of key importance. Finally, LECG       stored in device memory at the time of an arrhythmia episode occurrence, can help better       classify it.        The following factors might influence the quality of the LECG and/or the axis of the LECG:          -  temporal changes of the electrode tissue interface due to device pocket healing process          -  changes in device position and orientation over time          -  body motion          -  poor LECG contact due to oversized device pocket with replacement procedure. The purpose            of this study is to obtain more data on leadless ECG (LECG) to determine whether LECG            during standard CRT follow-up can indeed adequately replace surface ECG and to evaluate            if it can be used during remote follow-up evaluations.
nan
nan
This was a randomized, parallel group, multi-center study. Screening Visit (visit 1)       Subjects, parents, and the investigator signed and dated the informed consent after which       subject eligibility was checked. Eligible subjects were entered in the baseline period.        Baseline Period (between visits 1 and 2) Eligible subjects entered an 8-week baseline period       during which a seizure count was done. During this period, subjects and caregivers were       contacted on a regular basis to ensure up to date information collection.        At the end of the baseline period, subjects who continued to be eligible were stratified       based on previous therapy history (Early: previously treated with 2 to 5 AEDs versus       Non-early: previously treated with >5 AEDs). Within each stratification, the investigator       randomized each subject to receive one of the 2 treatments (VNS Therapy treatment or AED       treatment) at the end of visit 2 using a randomization schedule provided by an independent       third party (Synergos).        Implantation/AED Treatment Initiation (visit 3) For subjects randomized to the AED arm, a new       AED treatment was initiated and gradually increased to an effective dose in accordance with       the investigator's discretion and the manufacturer's suggested guidelines.        Subjects randomized to the VNS treatment arm were implanted with the VNS Therapy System and       allowed adequate surgical recovery according to usual clinical practice before initiation of       treatment. A delay of 2 weeks between the end of the baseline period and surgery was       authorized to allow practical organization of the implantation. Extension of this period was       approved in advance by the Study Director or his delegate.        Treatment Ramp-up (between visits 3 and 4) This ramp-up period for both AEDs and VNS may have       taken up to 9 weeks, ending at visit 4. Additional visits were scheduled outside of the study       protocol to adequately accommodate Treatment Ramp-up as needed. Initiation of treatments as       well as the ramp-up schedule was documented in the Case Report Forms.        Study Treatment Period The Study Treatment Period was 12 months (52 weeks) following visit 3       and including Treatment Ramp-up. Because this study was designed to compare the natural       course of treatment, changes in the study AED dose (for the AED group) or VNS stimulation       parameters (for the VNS Therapy group) were allowed as clinically indicated during the Study       Treatment Period. The protocol allowed approximately a 10% increase in baseline AED to allow       for an increase in growth of the patient in the VNS arm.        Study End At the end of the study, subjects in the AED group who had not had significant       improvement after all study assessments were completed were offered a VNS device       implantation. Subjects in the VNS arm who had not had adequate improvement were evaluated for       AED treatment.        Number of Subjects: Approximately 400 subjects were to be randomized at a 1:1 ratio to either       AED or VNS treatment strata. Strata were to be according the AED treatment history (Early       subjects were previously treated and failed treatment with 2 to 5 AEDs, Non-early subjects       were treated and failed treatment with >5 AEDs). At least 15 study sites were to enroll       subjects. Initially, only United Kingdom (UK) sites were to be selected. During the course of       the trial, an extension was used to add non-UK centers.        A total of 151 subjects underwent screening prior to enrollment. Eight failed screening, and       143 went on to be randomized. Of those randomized, 8 subjects (4 in each of the treatment       groups) were not treated. One patient in the VNS arm was explanted prior to initiation of       device stimulation, so they were excluded. Therefore, 134 subjects were treated (ITT       population): 65 were implanted with the VNS system and 69 were treated with AED. Nineteen       investigational sites in the UK, Austria, Belgium, Germany, and Sweden participated in this       study and enrolled subjects.        Study Duration: The maximum study follow-up was approximately 14 months from enrollment to       study exit. The study was terminated due to insufficient enrollment prior to reaching the 400       subjects as specified in the protocol. After 4.5 years of enrollment, the Sponsor terminated       enrollment and followed the remaining subjects out to the 52 week follow-up visit.
The Physiologic Pacing Registry will be conducted to gain a deeper understanding of       physiologic pacing device implants and follow-up workflows, including device and programmer       measurements to help inform Abbott's product and clinical data development efforts.       Additionally, the registry will provide a broader understanding of the clinical utility in       mapping physiologic pacing structures with the use of Abbott's EnSite Cardiac Mapping System       with an electrophysiology catheter prior to device implants for those institutions where       mapping is routine care prior to physiologic pacing device implant.        The registry will include patients undergoing implantation of an Abbott pacemaker,       defibrillator, or a cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) pacemaker (CRT-P) or CRT       defibrillator (CRT-D) according to the clinical site's routine care. Only patients scheduled       to receive an Abbott device may be enrolled to ensure proper device data collection for       future software and other physiologic pacing product development. The decision to provide       physiologic pacing therapy and selection of devices for implant are at the discretion of the       implanting physician. Abbott will collect data on the use of all commercially available leads       and associated implant tools based on the physician's discretion as part of routine clinical       practice within the registry.
Background:        Conventional ectopic myocardial right ventricular pacing (RVP) causes ventricular       dyssynchrony and may be associated with reverse ventricular remodeling, reduced ejection       fraction (EF), left ventricular dilatation, functional mitral valve regurgitation, heart       failure and an increased rate of new onset atrial fibrillation.        Dependent on individual patient's characteristics, several strategies are established to       prevent and to overcome the potential drawbacks of chronic RVP. In general, unnecessary       ectopic RVP should be avoided. For example, in patients with sinus node disease and intact       atrioventricular (AV) conduction, atrial pacing, AV (search) hysteresis or AAI-DDD/ADI pacing       may be used. In patients with impaired cardiac function and an expected higher percentage of       RVP, pacing strategies for cardiac resynchronization are indicated. Conventional cardiac       resynchronization therapy (CRT) uses an additional transvenous left ventricular lead for       synchronous ventricular stimulation and was shown to shorten QRS duration and to reduce       morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic heart failure, left bundle branch block       (LBBB) and reduced EF. Due to the non-physiological left ventricular epicardial stimulation,       however, conventional CRT is associated with 30% of non-responders and may even prolong       ventricular activation in patients with narrower QRS complex. First described in 1968, His       bundle pacing (HBP) has evolved to an increasingly used alternative for cardiac pacing.       Currently, HBP is regarded the most physiologic approach for ventricular stimulation because       it prevents ventricular dyssynchrony and its potential fatal long-term consequences by       preserving normal electrical activation of the ventricles. Clinical benefit of HBP has been       shown compared with conventional permanent RVP and CRT. Recent studies documented restoration       of normal electrical and mechanical left ventricular synchrony for both selective and       non-selective HBP. However, compared with conventional RVP the implantation procedure for HBP       is much more demanding requiring exact placement of the pacing lead within the anatomically       variable His bundle area. Alternatively, the correction of bundle branch conduction disorders       has been demonstrated for left bundle branch area (LBBA) pacing. As a consequence, current       guidelines recommend pacing methods that maintain physiologic ventricular activation in       patients with atrioventricular block who have an indication for permanent pacing with a LVEF       between 36% and 50% and are expected to require ventricular pacing more than 40% of the time       (class IIa indication).        In summary, there is increasing evidence showing the benefits of the different strategies for       physiologic pacing but the appropriate use of these approaches may be challenging in the       individual case. Therefore, appropriate patient selection, implantation approaches, device       programming and follow-up require further intensive evaluation.        Objective:        Main goal of the study is to evaluate implantation success for pacing methods aiming to       maintain physiologic ventricular activation. Procedural success is defined as stable lead       positioning and effective pacing within the target area with an appropriate and stable pacing       threshold.        Secondary goals of the study are to document and to evaluate          -  procedural parameters (e.g. venous access, time needed for lead implant, procedural            duration, radiation) and adverse events dependent on procedural approaches and patients            characteristics,          -  performance of the implanted system (sensing, pacing thresholds) and clinical outcome            during routine follow-up        Study design:        Single center, non-randomized, observational study, retrospective data analysis, on-going       prospective patient enrollment, descriptive statistics.        Center: Klinikum Fuerth (Dept. for Heart and Lung diseases, section for clinical       electrophysiology) / Germany in cooperation with the Dept. of Cardiology of the University       Erlangen / Germany and the University of Trieste / Italy.        Patients and methods:        Primary endpoint: Implantation success. Effective pacing and acceptable pacing threshold at       the targeted lead position. Target for lead placement is the area with maximum delayed       ventricular activation for transvenous CRT, the His bundle for selective or non-selective HBP       and the right interventricular septum with left bundle branch capture for LBBA pacing,       respectively. Target thresholds for the lead placed within the coronary sinus or at the       intrinsic conduction system is <2.5 V @ 1 ms with a maximum acceptable threshold of <4.0 V @       2 ms or <5 V @ 1 ms. Target for all other leads is <1 V @ 0.5 ms.        Secondary endpoints: patient characteristics and association with outcome. Implantation       success and outcome correlated with patient characteristics including electrocardiogram and       echocardiographic parameter and procedure related techniques and parameter. Safety: radiation       exposure, number and type of adverse events and adverse device related events. Follow-up:       device function, interrogation, programming and clinical outcome as evaluated in routine       follow-up, incl. ECG, echocardiography and parameter for assessment of heart failure.       Subpopulations: managed ventricular pacing, His bundle pacing, LBB-area pacing, CRT.       Implantation with or without electroanatomic mapping system.        Inclusion criteria:        Implantation of a pacemaker or ICD according to the current guidelines (Class I or IIa       indication) aiming to avoid pacing induced dyssynchrony, e.g. managed ventricular pacing,       His-bundle pacing, LBB-area pacing or conventional transvenous CRT. Age ≥ 18 years.        Exclusion criteria:        No given informed consent for the procedure. No follow up data available.        Sample size:        For the observational study, there is no pre-specified sample-size. Data from 200 patients       and procedures are expected.        Data security:        Study related data are collected by the study investigators in an anonymous clinic-internal       data-base that is password protected. All investigators have to provide valid GCP training.        Risk estimation:        The study is observational and descriptive with anonymized data collection and data analysis.       Therefore, the study adds no risk to the study population.        Ethics:        The "Pace-Conduct" study has been approved by the responsible ethics committee of the       Friedrich- Alexander University Erlangen, Germany (145_20 Bc)
PANORAMA will collect a large database of device behavior, for instance to monitor long term       behavior of device features, technical reliability and longevity, as well as to allow       studying device performance in different subgroups of patients. Larger databases are often       essential for formulating and testing study hypotheses for prospective (randomized) trials.       While it may depend on specific objectives for individual devices, reliable assessment of       device performance over longer periods and in broad patient populations typically requires a       study population from a few hundred to a few thousand patients. PANORAMA collects acute and       chronic patient and device data in a large population during routine usage of the device,       without specific study interventions, and always within the approved intended use of the       device.        In the past, observational studies were designed and conducted specifically on a       device-by-device case. PANORAMA avoids the redesign of the same set of data. It establishes a       core database which can be expanded with substudies creating more detailed data sets for       particular CRDM devices/features.        PANORAMA will be open for inclusion to any patient (to be) implanted with a CRDM device. It       shall be suitable for current and upcoming CRDM devices implanted in patients. It will serve       as an epidemiological tool designed to stratify morbidity and mortality of all cardiac       diseases treated by implantable CRDM devices.
AIM To investigate the effect of Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) on chemosensitivity       in patients with Chronic Heart Failure with and without Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB).        OBJECTIVE To conduct a physiological observational study to measure hypercapnic ventilatory       responses in a group of CHF patients before and 3 months after implantation of clinically       indicated CRT devices. Additionally to conduct nocturnal polysomnography to establish if any       change in chemosensitivity is related to the presence of SDB at baseline and, where present,       any change in SDB after implantation.        HYPOTHESIS Primary hypothesis: CRT implantation will be associated with a reduction in the       hypercapnic ventilatory response from baseline to 3 months post implantation.        Additional hypothesis: This reduction in hypercapnic ventilatory response after CRT       implantation will be greatest in those CHF patients with SDB at baseline.
Many pacemaker patients have cardiac conduction system disease and thus need ventricular       pacing. Traditional ventricular pacing causes ventricular dyssynchrony that in turn causes       cardiac contraction dysfunction. CRT pacing provides better ventricular synchronization, but       not the optimal, especially in patients with narrow QRS. CRT non-response rate is at 30%. His       bundle pacing utilizes naturel His bundle-Purkinjie system to provide optimal physiological       pacing. But many pacing-indicated patients have abnormal His bundle-Purkinje system, thus His       bundle pacing cannot provide optimal pacing in patients with abnormal cardiac conduction       system. Moreover, the pacing threshold is high during His bundle pacing. More recently, left       bundle branch pacing is proposed. However, LBBP will generate right bundle branch block       pattern, another kind of weak ventricular synchronization. Thus, the investigators propose to       excite the left and right bundle branches area simultaneously to normalize ventricular       synchronization. The purpose of this study is to explore the electrocardiogram (ECG)       characteristics of simultaneous stimulation of right and left bundle branches area.
A series of sites from outside the US, where the Edwards-Sapien and CoreValve devices are       approved for commercial sale and implantation, will be recruited to retrospectively identify       and extract in-hospital data of a patient who underwent TAVI during a live or video-taped       procedure and a matched patient who underwent TAVI without transmission of the procedure.
This is a prospective cohort study that will include patients younger than 18 years-old at       initial pacemaker implantation due to advanced AVB.        The design of the study will involve the following stages:          1. Screening and enrollment: patients will be selected consecutively during ambulatory care            at our Institution or by the database of the Surgical Unity of Cardiac Pacing;          2. Clinical and laboratory evaluation: patient history, clinical evaluation, serum levels            of neurohormonal and inflammatory biomarkers of heart failure, clinical and laboratory            investigation of autoimmune rheumatic diseases, quality of life (SF-36, CHQ-PF50) and            six-minute walk test;          3. Evaluation of ventricular function and cardiac synchronicity: Tissue Doppler (TDI) and            real-time three-dimensional echocardiography (RT3DE);          4. Follow-up: patients will be monitored during 24 months.        The main end-points are:          -  Clinical and functional changes (NYHA functional class)          -  Heart failure hospitalization          -  Quality of life          -  Overall and cardiac mortality          -  Cardiac resynchronization therapy and heart transplantation
nan
All study sites will be in China. Subjects successfully implanted with the Micra system in       all sites will be followed at implant/pre-discharge, 1-month, 3-months, and 6-months, and at       6-month intervals thereafter (if applicable) through study closure. The overall follow-up       period of the study will end when the last enrolled patient has 6 months of follow-up.
A randomized double-blind controlled clinical trial investigating the role of benznidazole in       patients with chronic Chagas' heart disease.        Chagas disease has 3 phases: acute, undetermined and chronic phases. There are no clinical       trials up to date that have investigated the use of antiparasitic drugs in patients that are       in the chronic phase.        This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of benznidazole (an antiparasitic drug) in       patients with chronic Chagas' heart disease. Evaluate if benznidazole, an antiparasite drug,       given at a dose calculated as 5mg/kg/day for 60 days, now administered as a fixed daily dose       of 300mg during 40 to 80 days of treatment - period adjusted according to the patient's body       weight to a total minimum dose of 12g (corresponding to 40kg) and a total maximum dose of 24g       (corresponding to 80kg) - reduces morbidity and mortality in patients with Chronic Chagas'       Cardiomyopathy (CCC). It will be developed in 49 study centres in Argentina,       Bolivia,Brazil,Colombia, and El Salvador - countries with high incidence of Chagas Disease.        The Pilot study is evaluating if benznidazole is effective in producing parasitic cure (PCR       negativization or reducing parasitic load) in chronic Chagas Disease as well as assessing the       feasibility of conducting a large trial in chronic Chagas Disease in South America.
nan
nan
"1" Traditionally, tricuspid regurgitation in the presence of pacemaker is attributed to the       physical interference of the valve closure by the electrode.        "2" Right ventricular pacing may be associated with dyssynchrony in contraction of the right       ventricular wall (i.e. septum and free wall.        "3" The tricuspid sub-valvar apparatus is anchored to the septum and free wall, thus may be       sensitive to dyssynchrony in those wals contraction.        "4" The study hypothesis is that the dyssynchrony in right ventricular contraction, induced       by pacing, may increase tricuspid regurgitation grade and that this is a mechanism is       independent of the mechanical effect of the electrode on the valve closure.
nan
There are different kinds of pacemakers and different ways they can be set up to try to make       the heart beat regularly. A normal heart has four chambers; these four chambers pump in a       co-ordinated way to move blood effectively. When pacemakers were first invented, they told       the heart when to pump, but didn't make the four chambers work well together. Newer       pacemakers can give more detailed instructions, so the chambers work together more       effectively. We already know that the newer (bi-ventricular) pacemakers work better for some       patients with heart failure.        There are blood tests (often referred to as "markers") that give us information about how       well your heart is working and about how your body is responding to heart failure. The idea       of this study is to compare different ways of setting up a pacemaker, using these blood tests       to give us information about how well it's working. We hope to learn if we can use this       approach to figure out the best pacemaker setup ("programming") for each individual patient.        Usually pacemakers have two wires or leads, one is in the top right chamber and the other in       the bottom right chamber of the heart. The newer pacemakers, which are given to patients with       heart failure, have an additional lead or wire, which goes to the left side of the heart. So       when heart contracts the lead from top chamber sends impulses to bottom chambers and the       leads in right and left sides of bottom chamber responds by sending impulses in a       co-ordinated way enabling heart to contract efficiently.        Currently, the standard way of treating patients with heart failure is by pacing the top and       then bottom chambers, based on a timing interval determined by ultrasound, while also pacing       the two bottom chambers in a coordinated manner. There are differences of opinion among       experts and by previous studies regarding this method. Pacing is accomplished through       pacemaker wires, which are placed in the right top chamber, the right bottom chamber and the       left bottom chamber of the heart.        The setting we propose to adjust is the timing between the impulse sent between top and       bottom chambers.
nan
Due to the lack of enrollments for the trial. The FDA and Medtronic discussed the inclusion       of data found from from published literature (external studies) to corroborate study       endpoint. The FDA allowed this data and the study was closed.
nan
We hypothesize that left ventricular pacing via a coronary sinus approach can reduce the       incidence of significant tricuspid regurgitation after pacemaker implantation in patients       with normal left ventricular function.        The aim of this study is to compare the degree of tricuspid regurgitation caused by pacemaker       implantation between the conventional techniques of implanting a ventricular lead implanted       in the right ventricular apex versus implanting a ventricular lead in a left ventricular       epicardial vein via a coronary sinus approach.        The secondary objective of our study is to evaluate whether left ventricular pacing is also       less likely to cause ventricular dyssynchrony and dysfunction than right ventricular apical       pacing.        This study is a single centre randomised clinical pilot study comparing 2 different lead       implantation techniques to be assessed using both imaging techniques and follow up for       clinical outcomes.        (i) Proposed study interventions The procedures in both arms of the study will be identical       except for where the ventricular lead is placed. All parts of these procedures, including all       the implanting equipment and pacing leads are standard routine clinical practice. The left       ventricular leads used in this study are routinely used for pacing the left ventricle in       patients receiving biventricular pacemakers or defibrillators for heart failure.        The implant site will be the left or right prepectoral region and venous access will be via       either an axillary or subclavian vein approach. These choices will be left to the implanting       physician's discretion. Once venous access has been established successfully the patient will       then be randomly allocated to either of the study arms.        Patients randomized to have an LV lead will have a long coronary sinus sheath inserted which       will be used to perform an occlusive venogram of the coronary sinus to determine if there are       veins suitable for left ventricular lead placement. Those in the left ventricular pacing arm       will instead have a left ventricular epicardial pacing lead placed as apically as possible in       a large calibre left ventricular branch of the coronary sinus.        Patients in the right ventricular apical pacing arm will have an endocardial active fixation       pacing leads placed in the right ventricular apex in the conventional manner.        Patients in both arms will then go on to have a right atrial active fixation lead placed in       the right atrial appendage.        (ii) Methods for protecting against other sources of bias All patients referred to our       Arrhythmia Service will be assessed for suitability to take part in this study. Once       recruited, study subjects will be block randomised in a 1:1 fashion to either conventional       right ventricular lead implantation or left ventricular coronary sinus lead implantation.       They will be blinded to their allocation during the course of this study to remove any bias.        Assessment of the echocardiograms will be performed by 2 investigators who are not blinded to       the patient's treatment allocation. This is because the pacemaker lead is nearly always well       visualised during echocardiographic studies making blinding impossible. However, the main       outcomes of this study will be quantitative measures of TR and biventricular function derived       from 3D echocardiography rather than qualitative measures used in previous studies and this       will protect against bias that may be caused by the echocardiogram assessors knowing the       allocation of the patients. The studies will also be assessed for interobserver and       intraobserver variability to look for the likelihood of bias.        (iii) Duration of follow up period Patients will be seen post discharge at 1 week for wound       care and at 1 months, 6 months and 12 months for pacemaker checks in the pacemaker clinic.        (iv) Frequency and duration of follow-up The scheduled follow up is as follows. Note that all       transthoracic echocardiography studies will include both 2D and 3D echocardiography          1. Pre implant: transthoracic echocardiography          2. Pacemaker implantation: randomisation when venous access is achieved. Blood samples            taken for biomarker assays.          3. Post implant day 1: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography          4. Post implant week 1: Wound check, pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography          5. Post implant month 1: Wound check, pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography          6. Post implant month 6: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography, blood samples            taken for biomarker assays.          7. Post implant month 12: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography
Heart failure represents a significant health problem, with the last national heart failure       audit demonstrating prevalence in the United Kingdom of 900,000 patients, accounting for 5%       of all acute hospital admissions. This is expected to increase with an ageing population.       Despite improvements in medical therapy, prognosis remains poor, with an in- hospital       mortality of 9.6%, and an estimated mortality of 30-40% at 1 year after diagnosis.        Multiple randomised controlled trials have demonstrated that cardiac resynchronization       therapy pacemaker devices ("CRT") are an effective therapy for patients with poor pumping       function and altered electrical conduction of the heart (left bundle branch block, "LBBB"),       improving both morbidity and mortality. However, only 60-70% of patients notice a symptomatic       improvement with CRT and even in patients who do respond, response can often be improved       further by optimising how the device is programmed.        CRT devices improve coordination of heart pumping by pacing both ventricles of the heart. A       key function of this is to coordinate the timing of contraction of the the atria and the       ventricles (atrio-ventricular, or "AV", optimisation). This allows maximal filling of the       left ventricle with blood. More recently, it has become important not only in standard       bi-ventricular ("BiV") pacing, but to allow left ventricular pacing to be timed with       intrinsic conduction to the right ventricle to provide CRT (so called 'fusion' pacing).        Multiple methods have been described to assess AV optimisation, including echocardiographic       measurements. However, echo based methods are labour intensive, and their value is uncertain.       Device algorithms utilising analysis of the intra-cardiac electrogram ("IEGM") have become an       attractive alternative due to their rapid and automated nature, although evidence suggests       that they may not have clinical benefit over using fixed AV delays. In addition, intrinsic AV       conduction is known to alter with exercise, normally becoming shorter. Optimisation of AV       delays in CRT on exercise has been shown to improve cardiac output. Device algorithms can       therefore allow dynamic adjustment of AV delays as they change with exercise and heart rate       (rate-adaptive AV delay or "RAAVD"). Indeed, use of individually tailored RAAVD in CRT       patients has demonstrated an increase in exercise capacity.        Patients with heart failure and LBBB often have normal intrinsic right ventricular activation       through the right bundle. Utilization of timed left ventricular ("LV") pacing to merge (or       fuse) with this intrinsic conduction may confer benefits over standard BiV pacing, but       requires relatively normal intrinsic AV conduction as well as correct timing of LV pacing to       right ventricular ("RV") activation. Algorithms now exist which allow dynamic reassessment of       intrinsic conduction and so adjustment of the optimal AV delay. They can therefore compensate       for changes in the intrinsic AV delay on exercising, and so maintain adequate fusion pacing       and CRT optimisation. One such software algorithm is SyncAV, developed by Abbott (Abbott       Vascular, 3200 Lakeside Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054-2807). SyncAVTM assesses       intrinsic AV conduction every 256 beats. It then sets a shorter programmed AV delay by       subtracting a set period (known as the "delta" - adjustable but nominally set to 50ms) from       the intrinsic time.        There is some evidence that fusion pacing gives benefit in terms of both acute pumping       function of the heart and long term response to CRT. However, what remains unclear is whether       the effect of dynamic AV optimisation and fusion pacing is maintained on exercise. Firstly,       the re-analysis and adjustment intervals may be insufficient to allow effective fusion       throughout exercise. It is therefore possible that with rapidly changing heart rates this       coordinated timing is lost, leading to inefficient conduction of electricity through the       heart. This could result in large periods of time on exercising without effective CRT and so       poor exercise tolerance. Secondly, there is evidence that in patients with heart failure AV       intervals do not alter with change in heart rate in a similar way to healthy controls. One       study found that the degree of change is greater on exercise, whilst one demonstrated that in       a CRT population only a third of patients had shorter optimal AV delay intervals on exercise,       with a third being unchanged and a third longer. The use of a fixed "delta" in SyncAVTM may       therefore result in incorrect adjustment of AV intervals as intrinsic conduction changes,       with the effectiveness of SyncAV therefore depending on how the intrinsic interval changes.        We will use a prospective single-centre randomized single-blind crossover study to       investigate the effectiveness of SyncAV on exercise, by randomising participants to either       use of SyncAV or fixed AV delays, and then carrying out cardiopulmonary exercise testing       ("CPET").
The purpose of this research is to figure out if MR imaging can detect movement of CSF (fluid       around the brain) to help better diagnosis and understand the cause of diseases that affect       brain function. We are doing this research study to find out if movement of CSF is different       between healthy adults and those with a disease that affects brain function.
With the current transcatheter valves available in the market, is possible to cover a wide       range of patients with diverse and complex anatomies. Nevertheless, there is a subgroup of       patient with large aortic annulus (diameter > 27 mm), in whom the implant of a transcatheter       valve is not possible because there is no valve suitable for such as aortic annulus size.        With the introduction of the CoreValveTM EvolutionTM R 34mm, patients with an aorttic annulus       dimension up to 29 mm in diameter have become eligible for TAVI. However, there is a lack of       information regarding the number of patient with AS and this particular anatomy of the aortic       annulus. Italian and Dutch registries have reported a prevalence between 6.5 to 12.3% with       large aortic annulus requiring the previous CoreValveTM 31mm. Yet, there is no reported data       regarding this population of patients in Spain. Also, the clinical use of this larger       prosthesis covers a wider range of aortic rings and may enchance the procedural challenges,       such as a little margin for proper valve placement, more likelihood of interference with       mitral valve function and damage to the cardiac conduction system during the prosthesis       deployment.        So far, no studies regarding clinical experiences with the CoreValveTM EvolutionTM R 34mm       have been published. The scarce information currently available with this new device may be       distant from those found in its daily clinical use in non-selected patients. The results of       this Spanish nationwide registry will help to answer a scientific need of information       regarding acute procedural results and mid
BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE        Colonoscopy is the 'gold-standard' diagnostic procedure for visualising the inside of the       large bowel. It involves the insertion of a flexible instrument called a "colonoscope" around       the large bowel. During insertion, looping of the instrument inside the colon can lead to       incomplete procedures and significant patient discomfort.        The development of the colonoscope magnetic imaging device (Olympus ScopeGuide®) has allowed       the doctor performing the examination to detect looping of the instrument more easily. It has       been shown in several studies that the duration, patient experience and completion rate of       colonoscopy can be significantly improved by the use of ScopeGuide®.        The manufacturer advises against the use of ScopeGuide® for patients with implantable devices       due to the theoretical hazard of electromagnetic interference leading to device malfunction.       Therefore, patients with permanent pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators       (ICDs) who require colonoscopy are denied the potential benefits offered by ScopeGuide®.       There is no documented evidence for this risk from case reports or studies and the       investigators have used a simulator to demonstrate that ScopeGuide® caused no interference or       malfunction.        The investigators propose an experimental study to evaluate the impact of the electromagnetic       field created by ScopeGuide® on the implanted cardiac devices in patients. The study will be       conducted in the Pacemaker Outpatient Clinic at Addenbrooke's hospital by a team of       investigators including gastroenterologists and cardiologists. After giving their consent to       participate, enrolled patients will have the activity of their cardiac device closely       monitored while in close proximity to ScopeGuide® and any effect of this on the cardiac       devices will be recorded.        The investigators hypothesise that ScopeGuide® does not create a magnetic field significant       enough to interfere with the normal function of these devices. If true, patients with       implanted cardiac devices can also be offered the benefit ScopeGuide® provides during       colonoscopy.        The justification for this research is that the ScopeGuide® is currently not used in patients       with implantable electronic cardiac devices (pacemakers and implantable cardioverter       defibrillators(ICDs)) due to the manufacturers advice. There are no case reports and no       studies in the medical literature to confirm or refute the advice and the investigators have       demonstrated no evidence of interference using a simulator.        The number of patients with either a pacemaker or ICD is increasingly annually and with       services such as the NHS bowel cancer screening programme in which colonoscopy is offered to       patients with blood in their stool more of these patients are having this test.        To deny these patients the use of the ScopeGuide®, which has been shown to reduce procedure       duration, reduce patient discomfort and increase completion rate without evidence is       unjustified.        The investigators therefore believe that this project is justified to potentially allow       patients with pacemakers or ICDs the benefit of ScopeGuide®. If the investigators demonstrate       evidence of interference, it would demonstrate a lack of safety in this patient group.        Due to the lack of data for the safety of ScopeGuide® for patients with implantable cardiac       devices we seek to question the current absolute contraindication imposed by the       manufacturer. The main question to be answered by this study is whether implantable cardiac       devices exhibit interference when exposed to the ScopeGuide®.        The population to be studied are individuals with implantable cardiac devices, attending       their regular device check appointment at Addenbrooke's hospital. The age range will be 18 to       80 years. Those being studied will be able to give informed consent.        OBJECTIVES Primary Objective The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate in 100       serial participants whether the ScopeGuide® causes interference with implantable cardiac       devices.        Secondary Objectives None STUDY DESIGN        Summary of Study Design        This study is an uncontrolled trial. The study method will be undertaken on 100 consecutive       consenting participants.        The participants will be required for one visit only. This will be during their routine       implantable device check appointment. Participation will extend their routine check       appointment time by around 30 minutes. Once they have completed the study procedure they will       not be required for follow up visits.        The duration of the study for an individual participant is as follows:        Attend regular cardiac device check appointment (around 20 minutes) Exposure to ScopeGuide®       device while being monitored (around 10 minutes) Repeat cardiac device check (around 20       minutes)
Radiation quantity used in medicine is expanding year on year with increasing clinical uses       for medical illnesses and to visualize instruments being used during procedures such as       cardiac devices including pacemakers. The effects of radiation are not only on the patients       for their procedure but also a cumulative effect of radiation on the operators. The       stochastic effects of radiation have been well reported in the literature. Advancing       technologies such as 3-dimensional(3D) mapping systems have allowed for leads to be       identified using a 3D matrix and safely deployed to the myocardium. However, there are       significant costs associated with the use of 3D mapping systems resulting in this approach       not being widely adopted. Ultrasound use during implantation of cardiac implantable       electronic devices (CIED) has been utilized in the past to gain vascular access via the       axillary vein with good safety results. Experimental studies to visualize leads in the heart       and venous systems using 3D ultrasound showed optimism but has not translated to clinical use       due to lack of technology to improve the spatial and temporal resolution. The technology in       imaging resolution has improved over the last 5 years and likely can be used to visualize a       pacing lead in the heart. Techniques such as intravascular cardiac ultrasound have been used       to assist in implanting lead via coronary sinus in individuals who can have contrast       allergies. Therefore, transthoracic echocardiogram and ultrasound should be now of sufficient       quality to allow for successful pacemaker insertion.        To date, there has not been a feasibility study to evaluate complete ultrasound and       echocardiography-assisted pacemaker insertion.        In this study, the investigators aim to utilize ultrasound and echocardiography to gain       vascular access and to direct the pacing lead into the right ventricle to allow for safe       pacemaker implantation. If this is successful, then this will allow for a larger study to be       conducted for single chamber devices including implantable cardioverter defibrillators.       Moreover, the investigators will be able to analyze the cost-effectiveness of this new       technique compared to the conventional technique of pacemaker implantation.
nan
Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) is currently recommended for patients with heart       failure who have symptomatic left ventricular (LV) systolic impairment and a prolonged QRS       duration.1, 2 Up to a third of patients post CRT implantation do not derive the anticipated       clinical benefit. The reasons for this are multifactorial, with patient selection and       successful LV lead implantation likely to be key factors.        The mechanism by which CRT exerts its clinical benefits is fundamentally through the       correction of mechanical dyssynchrony. However, despite much research in this area the       optimal measures of dyssynchrony for the selection of suitable candidates for CRT have not       been established. The current guidelines were revised in light of the PROSPECT trial which       failed to prove validity and reproducibility in complex echocardiographic variables of       dyssynchrony.3 The 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG) remains the most widely used criterion for       the assessment of dyssynchrony in patients being considered for CRT, with patients with a       broad QRS complex (>150ms) appearing to benefit the most.4, 5        Although the definition of left bundle branch block (LBBB) is well established, the precise       electrophysiological characteristics remain poorly understood. An arbitrary 'cut off' of 120       milliseconds was recommended by the New York Heart Association (NYHA) in 1948 for its       definition.6 This has subsequently become enshrined in the literature. The presence of LBBB,       a heterogeneous entity, is associated with both electrical and mechanical abnormalities       within the left ventricle.7 Septal and lateral wall delay frequently occur in this setting,       with delayed activation of the lateral LV wall forming the basis for bi-ventricular pacing.       It is well documented within populations with left ventricular impairment that there is       prolongation of the QRS complex which is associated with an adverse prognosis.8        The success of CRT is reliant upon achieving an acceptable position of the left ventricular       lead during implantation. The LV lead position needs to be anatomically stable to minimise       the risk of lead displacement and also to avoid diaphragmatic capture. Furthermore, patients       with myocardial scar tissue in the lateral LV segments as detected on CMR are known to have a       worse outcome following CRT 9 and pacing such sites may potentially be pro-arrhythmic.10 It       is not known whether CMR guided placement of the LV lead in order to avoid sites of       myocardial scar and fibrosis can result in an improved clinical outcome in these patients.        A recently published study corroborates that myocardial scar in the region of activation of       the LV lead may have a detrimental effect on the delivery of CRT. A consecutive series of 397       patients with ischaemic cardiomyopathy were imaged prior to the implantation of CRT. Using       the complex echocardiographic technique of 'speckle tracking', myocardial scar was       demonstrated to have an adverse effect on patients' outcomes. It remained an independent       predictor of adverse clinical outcome. Notably due to the complexity of the technique, the       presence of myocardial scar was validated using CMR.11        CRT response is a contentious subject. It is well recognised within the literature that       approximately 30-40% of patients do not appear to improve clinically following CRT       implantation.12 However, the inter-study variability of what has been considered as a marker       of response has been wide and several different variables have been utilised.13 Several of       the studies have also been small, single centre, and non-randomised. There is currently a       lack of consensus in what constitutes 'response' vs 'non-response' following CRT, which may       be either defined in terms of markers of LV reverse remodelling or changes in the clinical       indices of heart failure or a combination of them both. In an effort to rationalise the       endpoints of CRT trials, clinical composite scores have been devised inclusive of both       imaging based and clinical endpoints. However, the correlation between both LV remodelling       and clinical endpoints when compared using correlation coefficients is marginally better than       chance. The realisation that clinical improvement post CRT implantation does not necessarily       accompany mechanical remodelling has also confused the issue.        Rationale for Study The aim of the present study is to provide pilot data, the results of       which should increase our understanding of the mechanisms by which CRT improves clinical       outcomes in patients with heart failure.
This study is designed to explore whether a marker exists within the right ventricle (RV)       that may suggest future pacing induced dysfunction of the heart. Pacing the heart is a       necessary procedure when normal conduction has failed. It has been shown in some patients to       result in deleterious effects on the pumping function of the left ventricle acutely and       chronically. Little has been looked into within right ventricular function and how this       interacts with the left side. The fact that this dysfunction is not seen in all patients who       receive pacemakers is important and we aim to use these pure haemodynamic measures to       investigate this issue and try to identify those patients who may go on to have pacing       induced dysfunction. This is an important scientific question to answer as we know that these       patients can be spared the ventricular dysfunction by the intervention of biventricular       pacing at the time of initial implantation. What we do not know is how to choose this group       at the outset.        The study has been designed as a pilot investigation using patients who are to undergo       permanent pacemaker therapy. Our study will entail one additional catheter being passed to       the heart and also one to the inferior vena cava. This measurement of heart function will be       performed directly after the implantation of the pacemaker and will add only a small amount       of time to the case.        We will then follow these patients up and take echocardiographic data as well as blood       markers of impaired ventricular function at 6 months.        The design of this study is that of a cohort study with the common exposure being that of       pacemaker therapy. We seek to take detailed haemodynamic and echocardiographic measurements       at the time of implantation. This will yield powerful data when cross referenced to cases of       adverse ventricular function seen due to pacing at follow up. We aim to perform this pilot       study as a feasibility process in order to ascertain the frequency of measurable adverse       effects in this population and gain early insights into the markers we can look for. We do       not know this data at present. This will allow for a future definitive study to be designed       with appropriate participant numbers and follow up periods. The follow up period of 6 months       has been set in order to fit within the time constraints of an ongoing MD undertaking.        Patients who are being booked for a pacemaker implantation as per the normal course of their       treatment will be eligible to enter the study as long as they have a high anticipated pacing       component. This means that these patients would be expected to have their heart stimulated       via the pacemaker most of the time under normal circumstances of their care.        Patients are not eligible if they have atrial fibrillation (AF). This decision was made as       patients with AF have a very different activation pattern of the heart due to the       irregularity of heart rhythm and thus this would be a confounding factor to the study.        We will approach patients who meet eligibility criteria who are on the waiting list for       pacemaker implantation. We will explain that this is an adjunctive procedure to the Pacemaker       implant and purely for research purposes with no therapeutic benefit at the time of the       procedure. We will explain the follow up needs of the study and that there potentially is a       benefit to them to be followed up closely as per research protocol although this is not       normal clinical workflow. Any questions will be answered at that time and consent will at a       later time in preassessment clinic.        Written consent will be obtained prior to the study. The patients have the right to withdraw       from the trial at any point. Consent will be verbally reconfirmed before the procedure. This       process will be recorded within the medical notes at each stage.        The additional risk to the patient is insertion of the venous sheaths into the femoral vein.       This is performed routinely with every electrophysiology study which is a commonly performed       cardiac investigation. Very rarely the veins require to be repaired by a surgeon (1 in 500).       Bleeding or bruising may occur around the sheath. Insertion of the conductance catheter into       the heart may rarely (<1 in 1000) cause structural damage.
BACKGROUND Diagnosis and management of ACO (the anatomic substrate for ST-elevation       myocardial infarction) is time sensitive. Diagnosis necessitates emergent reperfusion       therapy. An important predictor of death from ACO includes time to reperfusion.1 Delays in       reperfusion therapy, including primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or       fibrinolysis, are associated with worse 30-day and 1-year mortality. American Heart       Association (AHA) guidelines for treatment of ACO recommend that the first medical contact to       device time be less than 120 minutes in patients who have no contraindications to treatment.2       Though cardiac biomarkers are helpful in making the diagnosis in uncertain cases, the time       sensitive nature of intervention for ACO precludes their use to direct emergent reperfusion       therapy. Furthermore, biomarkers do not diagnose ACO but rather any AMI, including those       without occlusion that do not need emergent intervention.        The "traditional" ECG diagnosis of ACO, which includes ST-elevation cutoffs based upon age       and sex, excludes patients with ventricular paced rhythm (VPR).3 The small field of research       on the topic of ACO in VPR has extrapolated and analyzed data from patients with left bundle       branch block (LBBB). That is because VPR with right ventricular pacing and LBBB both result       in depolarization from right to left through myocardium (not through conducting fibers) and       thus result in similar ECG findings (e.g. wide QRS, delayed onset of depolarization, and       abnormal repolarization with "discordant" [in the opposite direction of the QRS] T-waves and       ST-segment deviation). In the presence of known LBBB, AHA guidelines recommend using the       Sgarbossa criteria to make the diagnosis of ACO.4 Sgarbossa et al. proposed requiring at       least 3 points from the following criteria for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction       in the presence of LBBB: (1) concordant ST-segment elevation of 1 mm (0.1 mV) in at least 1       lead (5 points), (2) concordant ST-segment depression of at least 1 mm in leads V1 to V3 (3       points), or (3) excessively discordant ST-segment elevation, defined as greater than or equal       to 5 mm of ST-segment elevation when the QRS complex is negative (2 points). There have been       only a handful of evaluations of Sgarbossa's criteria in VPR, with variable methodologies and       patient populations; sensitivities in the studies ranged from 10-53% and specificities ranged       from 84-99%.5,6 Neither study used angiographic endpoints, but only used biomarker       definitions of AMI; one study used a very flawed biomarker definition with no adjudication.       Thus, the number of occlusions is entirely unknown and probably very small.        For LBBB, Smith et al. derived and validated a "modified Sgarbossa rule" in which they       replaced Sgarbossa's third criterion (excessively discordant ST elevation as defined by 5 mm)       with a proportion-based criterion (defined by > 25% of the previous S-wave) (see Table 1).       This rule resulted in much higher sensitivity and accuracy for diagnosis of ACO than the       original Sgarbossa.7,8        Table 1: MODIFIED SGARBOSSA CRITERIA          1. ST-segment elevation >= 1 mm and concordant with the QRS in any lead          2. ST-segment depression >= 1 mm and concordant with the QRS in any of leads V1- V3          3. Proportionally excessive discordant ST-segment elevation in at least one lead, as            defined by ST/S (</= -0.25) with at least 1 mm of STE        The modified Sgarbossa criteria have never been evaluated in patients with VPR and very few       additional criteria have ever been evaluated. To our knowledge, no criteria have been       evaluated using an angiographic outcome, the only outcome relevant to guiding emergency       reperfusion therapy. The primary purpose of this study will be to investigate the diagnostic       performance of selected ECG criteria for the diagnosis of ACO in VPR. Through the process of       answering this question, a database will be formed to answer multiple additional questions on       this patient population that is underrepresented in clinical trials.        STUDY DESIGN The primary analysis will be designed as a multicenter, retrospective       case-control study. Additionally, data will be collected to create a database of       de-identified patient information that will allow researchers to investigate numerous       additional questions.        Study sites will include Hennepin County Medical Center (HCMC, the lead site) and academic       and community centers (study sites) located internationally. Because AMI was redefined in       2007 by a rise and/or fall of troponin, with at least one value above the 99% reference       value,9 our study will only include subjects that presented from January 1, 2008 through       December 31, 2015.
nan
Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) reduces both morbidity and mortality in selected       patients with left ventricular dysfunction and intraventricular conduction delay who remain       symptomatic despite optimal medical therapy.        It is known that up to 30% of patients of patients undergoing CRT implantation do not attain       symptomatic benefit . Given the inherent risks and costs of device implantation and       maintenance, a reduction in the rate of CRT "non-responders" is an important goal.        Factors associated with a poor outcome include presence of myocardial scar, and suboptimal       Left Ventricular (LV) lead placement.        Pacing the LV at the most delayed LV region promotes contractile synchrony resulting in more       effective and energetically efficient ejection, geometric remodelling with reduced LV       end-systolic volume and improved cardiac function.        Studies using transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) parameters to target the LV lead       positioning have shown that an optimal LV lead position at the site of latest mechanical       activation, avoiding low strain amplitude (scar), was associated with superior response to       CRT and improved survival that persisted during follow-up.        It remains unclear whether the site of latest mechanical activation is related to the site of       latest electrical activation, nor whether sensed electrical signals correspond to sites of       scar. The site of latest electrical activation is assessed during CRT implant by measuring       electrical activation (LV electrical delay) of the LV at different sites in relation to the       first deflection of the QRS complex of the surface electrocardiogram (ECG).        A recent study evaluated the relationship between LV electrical delay and CRT outcomes/       response to CRT and concluded that electrical dyssynchrony was strongly and independently       associated with reverse remodelling and led to improvement in the Quality of Life with CRT.        Despite TTE being an effective way of assessing optimal LV lead positioning for identifying       mechanical activation, it is expensive, images can be suboptimal and usually requires an       extra visit prior to implantation, therefore an intraprocedural way of identifying the       optimal areas could be beneficial.        It is not known whether lead position as targeted by imaging methods of mechanical activation       corresponds to the site of latest electrical activation, nor whether sensed electrical       signals correspond to sites of scar. Investigators are planning to investigate the       relationship between the site of latest mechanical activation using TTE and the site of       latest electrical activation of the LV; and between scar and sensed electrical signals.        If the area of latest mechanical activation is related to the area of latest electrical       activation then this can be an alternative, more convenient and cost effective way of       assessing optimal LV lead positioning.
nan
100 patients with QRS duration (120-150ms LBBB) for device insertion as per ESC guidelines       2013 will be recruited to the study from 10 centres. Patients will undergo the pre-operative       work up that is typical of their institution (for example at the GSTT site this will include       cardiac MRI, cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET), 6 minute walk test , bloods including       Nt pro BNP, Minnesota living with heart failure questionnaire (MLWHFQ), 2D/3D echocardiogram       and the collection of demographic data.)        Patients will then be randomised in a 1:1 fashion to receive either the Triventricular device       or the conventional biventricular device.        Participants will then be followed up as per the implanting institution's typical follow up.       (for example at GSTT this will include 6 week atrio-ventricular and ventricular-ventricular       optimisation (if patients have a device that does not autooptimise) and review by a clinician       as well as a 6 month follow up at which point the CPET, 6 minute walk test , MLWHFQ, bloods       including Nt pro BNP, 2D/3D echocardiogram and the collection of demographic data will be       repeated.)        Regardless of the institution's own follow up, a 6 week (4-8 week) and 6 month (5-9month)       follow up appointment will form part of the study protocol. The 6 week check will be take the       form of a standard clinical pacing check with physician input if it is deemed necessary as       per the host institution's usual standard of care/ (usually one would imagine if a problem of       therapy delivery is noted)        The 6 month follow up will allow for patient and device follow up. This will require 2D       echocardiography, 6 min walk test, MLWHFQ and NtproBNP measurement. Where possible       institutions will be encouraged to perform CPET and 3D echocardiography pre implant and at 6       months.        For determining the " response rate", a positive response will be defined as an absolute       reduction of LVESV by 15%. In order to determine the magnitude of response then the change in       LVESV will be assessed as a continuous variable.
nan
nan
nan
Subjects who are implanted with a clinically indicated implanted cardiac pacemaker or       defibrillator will be randomized to standard of care (next day discharge) versus same day       discharge post implant. Both groups will under go standard of care assessments prior to       discharge. The same day discharge group will receive a phone call the next day to assess for       events and will transmit device data electronically. Both groups will be seen 10 - 14 days       after implant for further evaluation.        The subjects will also complete questionnaires regarding their knowledge of self care and       satisfaction with care.
nan
The purpose of this observational study is to collect data regarding the population of       patients whit a Zephyr™ pacemaker implanted, models 5826 and 5820, and active or passive       fixation leads , when the Algorithms Acap Confirm, which automatically regulates the Atrial       Pulse Width, is enabled.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
Non-invasive methods enabling long-term ECG monitoring in patients with paroxysmal symptoms,       such as tachycardia or palpitations increase the probability of detecting infrequent but       dangerous events with profound clinical significance. Patients with recommendation for the       first catheter ablation of Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation in the reference center will be       included in the study. Eligible patients will have 14-day telemetric ECG monitoring. Based on       detected arrhythmia events, patient's medical history and available documentation the most       appropriate treatment will be recommended. Patients will undergo invasive procedures of       ablation or pacemaker implantation or can be treated pharmacologically. After the invasive       treatment or initiation of pharmacotherapy the 14-day telemetric ECG monitoring will be       repeated to assess efficacy of the treatment.        Patients with no record of arrhythmia requiring treatment during the first 14 days ECG       monitoring will terminate participation in the study. The referring physician will be       informed. Further diagnosis or treatment should be performed at the referring physician's       center according to the best clinical practice.
The scientific premise of this proposal is that left and right ventricular (LV and RV)       structural characteristics in patients with existing cardiac implantable electronic devices       and heart failure who may benefit from an upgrade to a cardiac resynchronization therapy       (CRT) device can be assessed very effectively using cardiac MRI using sequences designed for       post-device imaging. Furthermore, a comparative analysis of the differences in LV/RV       structural characteristics in patients with existing devices referred for CRT upgrades versus       those with de novo CRT implants is expected to be very useful for developing effective       strategies for optimal patient selection for CRT upgrades and implementation of CRT upgrades       in appropriate patients. Patient selection for CRT upgrades is very important considering       that complication rates are higher than in de novo CRT procedures and nonresponse rates are       still high. With this in mind, we are performing a study of 100 patients, including 50       prospectively enrolled patients with LVEF less than or equal to 0.35 and New York Heart       Association class II-III heart failure, who will be compared with an existing cohort of 50       patients with recent de novo CRT implants, pre-CRT MRIs, and response data. The 50       prospectively enrolled patients having CRT upgrades will undergo a pre-CRT cardiac MRI,       pre-CRT/post-CRT echocardiography, and pre-CRT/post-CRT cardiopulmonary exercise testing. In       the first aim, we will assess differences in cardiac MRI findings between CRT upgrade       patients and de novo CRT patients. In the second aim, we will assess the impact of cardiac       MRI findings on LV reverse remodeling and cardiopulmonary capacity in the two groups. In       summary, we propose a comprehensive prospective CRT/MRI study in CRT upgrade patients with       comparison to a complete MRI dataset of patients with de novo CRT implants in order to       identify key differences in MRI findings in these cohorts and the impact of these MRI-based       scar and activation findings on clinical outcomes. We expect that our results will have a       significant public health impact for patients with heart failure referred for CRT upgrades.
nan
nan
The study will focus on the number of patients moving to persistent Atrial Fibrillation as a       function of cumulative %Vp (< or >40%), in a general dual-chamber pacemaker population       through a 2 year follow-up (n=2188).        The same endpoint will be analyzed in sub populations (Sinus Node Disease and AVB) at 4 years       follow up (n=4290).
nan
Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis in elderly patients represents a surgical challenge for       cardiac surgeons due to heavy calcifications and associated comorbidities. Such conditions       usually are associated with dramatic intra and postoperative complications leading to many       cases being declined for open surgical replacement. Many treatment modalities were described       including trans-catheter valvutomy but with only temporary improvements and high rates of       recurrence. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) has offered an alternative       solution to such cases in which open surgery is deemed too risky or prohibited.        Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a common comorbidity in patients undergoing TAVI. It has       been reported with 40-75% of the patients with increased adverse outcomes.Despite performing       TAVI alone in these patient has shown significant improvement, yet CAD has showed increased       risk in terms of hemodynamic instability and risk of myocardial infarction during rapid       pacing which is an important step during the TAVI procedure.        According to the AHA/ACC guidelines, in patients undergoing Aortic valve replacement/ repair       (AVR) who also have significant CAD, the combination of Coronary artery bypass grafting       (CABG) and AVR reduces the rates of perioperative Myocardial Infarction, perioperative       mortality, late mortality, and morbidity when compared with patients not undergoing       simultaneous CABG, even though the combined operation carries a small but real increased risk       of mortality (Class II A).        Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been the commonly used treatment modality for       (CAD) which is usually carried out pre TAVI or less commonly simultaneously with TAVI (mainly       due to access limitation after valve implantation). In patients with intermediate or high       SYNTAX scores, CABG remains the standard therapy. Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB)       procedure has demonstrated excellent results in these patients, due to the avoidance of       cardiopulmonary bypass and manipulation of the aorta.        Only a few studies in the literature have reported the combined approach of CABG and TAVI in       treatment of coronary artery disease and severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Here the       invesigators decided to study the early three months outcomes of patients undergoing TAVI and       surgical revascularization.
nan
Transvenous lead extraction/explantation is crucial procedure in the longterm managment of       patients with implanted pacemakers or cardioverter defibrillators. Due to technical progress       of lead removal tools the success rates are increasing and complication rates are decreasing       over time. There are only limited data on the use of rotational dissecting sheath.        Our study present the patient as well as the procedural characteristics and outcomes from a       high-volume TLE centre.
Heart failure is a leading cause of death, hospitalisation, impaired quality of life and       health expenditure. Symptoms and survival can be significantly improved by implantation of a       device for Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT). CRT devices are available as       biventricular pacemakers (CRT-P) or as significantly more complex and cost-intensive       biventricular defibrillators (CRT-D).        In patients who have previously experienced a life-threatening arrhythmia, the choice of the       CRT-D (and not the CRT-P) is imperative but these are a small minority of patients. For the       vast majority of patients receiving CRT therapy, there is currently considerable uncertainty       as to whether the defibrillator function is needed and whether its benefits outweigh its       risks. The defibrillator function may protect patients from sudden cardiac death. On the       other hand, device-associated complications such as device infections appear to be increased;       furthermore the defibrillator comes along with specific adverse events, particularly       inappropriate shocks. These shocks are common and not only traumatic to patients (potentially       leading to post-traumatic stress syndrome, anxiety disorders and depression), they also are       negatively associated with overall survival.        The objective of the trial is to demonstrate that in patients with chronic heart failure who       receive optimal medical treatment for this condition and have indication for CRT, the       implantation of a CRT-P (index group) is not inferior to CRT-D (control group) with respect       to all-cause mortality. Patients with an indication for CRT will be randomised to CRT-P or       CRT-D.        RESET-CRT is an event-driven trial with a planned number of randomised and treated patients       of at least n=1,356 (maximum of 2,004) and of 361 primary endpoints within an estimated       median follow-up period of about 29 to 40 months.        No investigational medical product is defined to be used within RESET-CRT since only the       therapeutic strategy (CRT-D versus CRT-P) is a pre-defined study treatment and allocated by       random group (Proof of Strategy Trial). The devices to be implanted will be decided by the       treating physician on the basis of the situation of the individual study patient and in line       with local policies in routine clinical care.        Duration of study period:        Enrolment of 1,356 patients is expected to be completed within 52 months after inclusion of       the first patient, i.e., by 31 December 2022. With an overall annual event rate between 9.0%       and 12.5%, 361 primary endpoints will have occurred within 9 to 20 months of randomisation of       the last patient (between 30 September 2023 and 31 August 2024). Under these circumstances,       the total study duration will be between 62 and 73 months.        The Steering Committee of the study might prolong the recruitment period, for instance by 12       months, in the event of an unexpected slower recruitment rate or an overall event rate < 9.0%       for the primary endpoint.        For individual patients, the expected median follow-up time is between 29 and 40 months, with       a minimum between 9 and 20 months and a maximum between 61 and 72 months. Follow-up may be       prolonged by 12 months in the event of a prolonged recruitment period.
The effect of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) for heart failure patients was       heterogeneous. Candidate selection was important before intervention. The underlying       mechanical dyssynchrony of left ventricular bundle branch block was insufficiently       descripted. Earlier study of investigators found novel imaging methods such as cardiovascular       magnetic resonance imaging including T1 Mapping and feature tracking imaging can provide more       detailed information about regional and global LV function in patients. While the role of new       cardiac MR imaging techniques in predicting CRT responses, especially in LBBB patients, is       still insufficient. Z Chen et al used T1 mapping technique to quantitatively assess the       diffuse fibrosis burden of myocardial in heart failure patients. But they found focal       fibrosis burden, not diffuse burden, is associated with a poor response to CRT. Other cardiac       MR imaging parameters also showed potential predictors of CRT, such as 16 segment       time-to-maximum radial wall thickness , scar locations and RV septal lead placement.In this       study cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (including T1 Mapping combined with feature       tracking imaging ) will be applied to follow up LV function in LBBB patients (with or without       intervention) in 10 years to find out prognostic predictors and time point or CMR parameters       for cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with CLBBB.
Introduction: Widely used as lipid lowering agents, Omega 3 fatty acids have been       demonstrated to possess the potential to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in patients       suffering from chronic heart conditions. In this double -blinded randomized       placebo-controlled clinical trial, we aim to investigate the possible beneficial effects of       Omega-3 supplements on echocardiographic parameters and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP)       plasma levels in patients suffering from congestive heart failure (CHF).        Methods and Materials: 100 patients with class II and III CHF, who had tri-chamber pacemaker       and automated defibrillator( CRT-AICD) were initially recruited among which 70 subjects       consented to participate. Subjects were randomly assigned and matched to two treatment       groups. 42 patients were allocated to a two gram/day dosing of omega-3 capsule while 28       subjects were allocated to the placebo group. Demographic features and BNP plasma levels,       6-minute walk test and echocardiographic parameters of patients were recorded at baseline and       at 6 months after implementation of treatment protocols. Data were further gathered and       analyzed to evaluate the beneficial effects of omega-3 supplements compared to placebo.        Conclusion: Beneficial effects of Omega-3 supplementation on CHF patients were not as       dramatic as initially presumed
Heart failure, where the heart muscle is damaged and is unable to pump blood efficiently,       affects 9% of those aged 55 or more and is responsible for about 2% of the hospital       admissions in the UK. The first symptom many patients complain of is breathlessness on       exercise and an inability to perform their normal daily activities. Unfortunately these       symptoms are similar to those experienced in numerous diseases of the heart and lungs.       Cardiopulmonary exercise testing, through measuring numerous values taken from breathing       during exercise can tell us which disease is causing the symptoms.        The leading parameter from a CPET, peak VO2, has for many years been the single value used to       guide management of patients following a diagnosis of many diseases from the heart and lungs.       Newer measures predict outcome from heart failure (our principal area of interest) better. We       believe this may be because they are less affected by lung disease than peak VO2 and we know       that many patients have both heart and lung diseases.        By showing the best CPET variable for each individual disease state, we will be able to       ensure patients are correctly put into a level of risk for their condition and that they will       be followed-up with the most accurate marker from exercise testing, rather than a "one size       fits all" approach of peak VO2.        With regards to heart valve disease, standard exercise testing just using ECG leads, rather       than cardiopulmonary exercise testing, is starting to be used more in identifying patients       without symptoms for possible surgery. The inaccuracy of this test will inevitably lead to       patients being wrongly categorised. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing is a much more accurate       way of establishing the impact of any disease on the heart or lung over traditional exercise       testing and therefore we believe that evidence of its role around the time of surgery could       be used as further support for its role in improving decision making for patient.        Ultimately the greater knowledge of this test and when we should use it will help patients       with very common heart conditions to be treated appropriately, potentially helping many       patients.
Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) is a newly developed therapy designed to improve       outcomes in patients with heart failure(HF). Recent studies have shown significant       symptomatic improvement and a decrease in hospitalization and mortality with CRT. However, up       to 30 % of patients do not experience improvement with this invasive and costly therapy.       Tissue Doppler Imaging (TDI) is emerging as an effective tool for non-invasively assessing       mechanical dyssynchrony of the left ventricle (LV) and may aid in the identification of LV       mechanical dyssynchrony to predict clinical response to CRT. PROMISE-CRT is designed to       address the following hypothesis: Changes in tissue doppler imaging measures of left       ventricular mechanical dyssynchrony from baseline to one week following cardiac       resynchronization therapy will correlate with the clinical response at three months. Seventy       HF patients clinically indicated to receive CRT will be enrolled in this six-month       multi-center study conducted in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. TDI analyses,       measures of clinical improvement and LV remodeling will be conducted one week, three months,       six months after CRT implementation.
nan
Between December 1, 2017 and June 30 2019, 200 patients with chronic heart failure caused by       rheumatic valvular heart disease waiting for heart valve replacement in Department of       Cardiovascular Surgery were screened for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) by full-night       polysomnography (PSG). Of them, 30 OSA patients were enrolled and randomly received CPAP       treatment and non-CPAP treatment (15:15).        The CPAP treatment group received both baseline and CPAP treatment. The full-night CPAP       treatment was conducted from 21:00 pm to 6:00 am for 7 days preoperatively. The non-CPAP       treatment group received baseline treatment.        Preoperative Sleep parameters (AHI, mean and lowest SPO2) and clinical evaluations including       NYHA class, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic, arterial blood gas analysis findings,       baseline medication, and 6-minute walk test were recorded.        Operation related parameters such as duration of operation, duration of cardiopulmonary       bypass and bleeding volume were recorded.        Postoperative adverse events such as duration of ICU stay, postoperative duration of       mechanical ventilation, pacemaker use, complicated infection and reintubation are recorded.        A PSG was re-examined before discharge from hospital. The changes of AHI, mean and lowest       SPO2 between pre- and post-operative PSG parameters were calculated.        The operation related parameters, postoperative adverse events and the changes of sleep       parameters were compared between CPAP and non-CPAP patients.
Rationale        Infective endocarditis (IE) is a frequent and serious complication of implanted intracardiac       prosthetic material, with a high morbidity and mortality. The number of procedures where       prosthetic material is implanted in the heart increases, as do the age and comorbidity of       treated subjects. In current clinical practice diagnosis of infected intracardiac prosthetic       material is often difficult because of the lack of sensitivity of the available diagnostic       armamentarium for IE.        As a general rule, first line treatment of intracardiac prosthetic material related       endocarditis consists of surgical prosthesis removal, combined with appropriate antimicrobial       therapy. The exception encompasses uncomplicated prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). PVE       actually has a fair chance of successful medical treatment alone (>50%), depending on the       causative micro-organism. Although there is evidence and consensus with regard to the first       line treatment, surgical removal is not always possible because of its associated high risk,       technical limitations, or unwillingness of patients to undergo an invasive surgical       procedure. Second and third line treatments do not include surgery, and consist of       antimicrobial therapy with biofilm-penetrating agents during a predetermined timespan (second       line) or as life-long suppressive antimicrobial therapy (third line). These treatments are       the alternative in situations wherein first line treatment is not feasible or is unwanted.       Although not extensively investigated, these treatments are considered suboptimal.        Therefore further research is necessary. More research is needed to diagnose IE more accurate       and prompt, as current diagnostic criteria (the modified Duke criteria) for IE are       insufficient and as it is unclear how to best allocate non-invasive imaging techniques,       especially for intracardiac prosthetic material. More research is also needed to verify the       indications for and optimize the use of second and third line treatments in patients with       intracardiac prosthetic material.        Objectives        Primary        To define the diagnostic value of the combination of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose       fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET) and electrocardiogram-gated       multidetector computed tomography angiography (ECG-gated MD-CTA) in patients suspected of IE,       in particular those with intracardiac prosthetic material, when added to the standard       diagnostic work-up for IE.        Secondary          -  To define the predictive value of MD-CTA and 18F-FDG PET with regard to relapse rate and            mortality of IE;          -  To identify sources of false positive and false negative results in MD-CTA and 18F-FDG            PET (e.g. the effect of the use of antimicrobial therapy on imaging findings);          -  To identify the best MD-CTA and 18F-FDG PET scanning protocol;          -  To define the role of 18F-FDG PET for finding other infectious lesions in the body;          -  To assess and compare current clinical practices in patients with intracardiac            prosthetic material related infection when the foreign material cannot be removed; to            determine the outcomes of second and third line treatment as compared with first line            treatment, and to determine predictors of outcome;          -  To investigate the potential of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to improve the            antimicrobial therapy in patients suspected of IE, in particular those with intracardiac            prosthetic material:               -  for which peak and through blood concentrations should be aimed at in IE for                 flucloxacillin, rifampicin, cefazolin, cefuroxime, ceftriaxone, amoxicillin,                 penicillin; fluconazole, flucytosine, amphotericin-B?               -  for which peak blood concentrations should be aimed at for gentamicin in IE?               -  for which peak and through blood concentrations should be aimed at for vancomycin                 in intracardiac prosthetic material related IE?               -  for which through blood concentrations should be aimed at in IE for voriconazole?          -  To investigate antimicrobial concentrations in resected cardiac tissue (e.g. heart valve            or vegetation which has been removed based on medical indication) in patients with IE            who have been treated medically with antimicrobials and who subsequently are operated            upon.        Study design        Prospective multicentre observation study, with the University Medical Center Groningen       (UMCG) in Groningen as the leading centre.        Study population        Patients (≥18 years) in which IE is suspected according to the britisch society for       antimicrobial chemotherapy (BSAC) criteria 2012.        Main study parameters/endpoints        Number of clinically identified (prosthetic material related) endocarditis episodes,       according to (multiple) constellation(s) of diagnostic criteria versus number of "true"       (prosthetic material related) endocarditis episodes, according to our gold standard "expert       opinion after 12 months (+/- 2 weeks) follow-up" (based on clinical reasoning, the modified       Duke criteria, and findings during surgery and from pathology).
A total of 30 patients with refractory cardioinhibitory vasovagal syncope receiving a       Biotronik pacemaker with Closed-loop Stimulation (CLS) algorithm will be enrolled in the       study. Two head-up tilt test (HUTT), one during DDD 60/min pacing with CLS algorith turned       off (CLS-OFF) and the other during DDD-CLS pacing (CLS-ON), will be performed one week apart;       patients will be randomly and blindly assigned to group A (n=15, first HUTT in CLS-ON mode)       or B (n=15, first HUTT in CLS-OFF mode). During HUTT heart rate, blood pressure, and the       incidence of clinical prodromes and syncope wil be recorded.
nan
Patient prothesis mis-match (PPM) remains a clinical dilemma in transcatheter aortic valve       replacement (TAVR) and has been linked to higher rates of morbidity and mortality.       Supra-annular self-expanding valves have been linked to lower gradients and lower rates of       patient prosthesis mismatch versus annular valves but they have not been directly compared.       Patients with small annuli are particularly vulnerable to PPM, therefore, the aprior       hypothesis is that implantation of supra-annular valves for small annuli may show differences       in PPM rates and outcomes when compared to annular valves.
Patients with a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, with or without a dual chamber       pacemaker and who meet all study criteria, will be randomized to receive either a placebo, or       simvastatin 40 mg, daily for 6 months.        Liver enzymes are drawn at randomization and 3 months. CRP and oxidative stress products are       drawn at randomization, weekly for the first month and then monthly for 5 months.        Patients transmit their rhythm, twice daily for 5 consecutive days at randomization, then 5       consecutive days monthly for 6 months.        Clinic visits are required at randomization, 3 months and 6 months.
Myval European Study: A retrospective, multicentre, observational study in patients       presenting with native severe aortic valve stenosis and treated with Myval™ Transcatheter       Heart Valve System in real-world setting.        This study shall retrospectively collect the data of minimum 200 consecutive patients treated       with Myval THV system between 01-June-2019 to 30-June-2020 from approximately 15       participating sites in Europe.        Primary Endpoint:        Primary Combined Safety and Effectiveness Endpoint: [Time frame: 30 days]        It is the composite of following:          -  All-cause mortality          -  All stroke (disabling and non-disabling)          -  Life-threatening or disabling bleeding          -  Acute kidney injury (stage 2 or 3)          -  Major vascular complications          -  Moderate or severe prosthetic valve regurgitation          -  Conduction system disturbances resulting in a new permanent pacemaker implantation.        Secondary endpoints:          1. All-cause mortality (VARC-2 defined criteria) [Time Frame: Through 30 days]          2. All stroke (disabling and non-disabling) [Time Frame: Through 30 days]               -  Disabling stroke: an mRS score of 2 or more at 90 days and an increase in at least                 one mRS category from an individual's pre-stroke baseline               -  Non-disabling stroke: an mRS score of 2 at 90 days or one that does not result in                 an increase in at least one mRS category from an individual's pre-stroke baseline             Note: As per VARC-2, the assessment of the mRS should be done at all scheduled visits in            a trial and at 90 days after the onset of any stroke.          3. Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) based on the Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN) System Stage 3            (including renal replacement therapy) or Stage 2 [Time Frame: Through 30 days]          4. Life-threatening or disabling bleeding (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: Through 30 days]          5. Moderate or severe prosthetic valve regurgitation [Time Frame: Through 30 days]          6. New permanent pacemaker implantation [Time Frame: Through 30 days] New permanent            pacemaker implantation rates will be analyzed further based on the patient's history of            left and/or right bundle branch block.          7. Conduction disturbances and arrhythmias according to VARC-2 [Time Frame: Through 30            days]          8. Device success (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: Pre-discharge]          9. Early safety at 30 days (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: After 30 days of index procedure]         10. Clinical efficacy after 30 days (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: After 30 days of index            procedure]         11. Time-related valve safety (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: Through 30 days]         12. Vascular and access related complications (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: Pre-discharge,            Through 30 days]         13. Major vascular complications (VARC-2 criteria) [Time Frame: Pre-discharge, Through 30            days]         14. Functional improvement from baseline as measured per             a. NYHA functional classification [Time frame: Baseline, 30 days]         15. Echocardiographic End Points               -  Effective orifice area (EOA)               -  Index effective orifice area (iEOA)               -  Mean aortic valve gradient               -  Peak aortic valve gradient               -  Peak aortic velocity               -  Transvalvular, paravalvular and total aortic regurgitation               -  Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)               -  Valve calcification               -  Cardiac output and cardiac index [Time frame: Through 30 days]         16. Patient-prosthesis Mismatch: [Time Frame: Post-procedure, predishcarge, Through 30 days]            Severity patient-prosthesis-mismatch will be based on following               -  For subjects with BMI < 30 kg/m2, index effective orifice area (EOAi) 0.85 - 0.65                 cm2 /m2 for moderate and <0.65 cm2 /m2 for severe               -  For subjects with BMI ≥30 kg/m2, index effective orifice area (EOAi) 0.90 - 0.60                 cm2 /m2 for moderate and <0.60 cm2 /m2 for severe BMI = weight(kg)/(height (m)) 2         17. Length of index hospital stay. [Time frame: At discharge]             - Number of days from hospital admission to discharge.         18. Hospitalization for valve-related symptoms or worsening congestive heart failure (New            York Heart Association [NYHA] class III or IV) [Time Frame: Through 30 days]         19. New onset of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter [Time Frame: Post-procedure,            Pre-discharge and 30 days]         20. Endocarditis [Time Frame: Through 30 days]         21. Major bleeding event [Time Frame: Through 30 days]         22. Other Endpoints:               -  Myocardial rupture [Time Frame: During procedure]               -  Paravalvular leak [Time Frame:Through 30 days]               -  Degree of over- or under-expansion of Myval [Time Frame: During procedure]               -  Accuracy of deployment in relation to the annular plane [Time Frame: During                 procedure]               -  Pacemaker deployment (and the symptoms resulting in it) [Time Frame: Through 30                 days]               -  Interference with the mitral valve; and [Time Frame: During procedure]               -  Interference with the LVOT [Time Frame: During procedure]                    -  If the endpoint data is available through 1 year, it will also be collected                      and analyzed.        Clinical efficacy data will be collected only for patients with availability of data after 30       days follow-up.        Long term clinical follow up by telephonic interview will be conducted for all patients who       have completed 30 days safety follow-up, at 1 year, 3 year and 5 years.
BACKGROUND:        Cardiac tachyarrhythmias that are refractory to either conventional or experimental       antiarrhythmic therapy, antitachycardia pacemakers, or both, may result in serious symptoms       or death. Catheter ablation has been developed as a nonpharmacologic, closed-chest       alternative for the management of these patients. The technique was first applied to man in       1981 and reported by both Scheinman et al and Gallagher et al in 1982. Hartzler reported the       first catheter ablation procedure for the treatment of ventricular tachycardia in 1983. In       that same year, Weber reported the first use of catheter ablation of an accessory       atrioventricular pathway. The standard method of energy delivery for closed-chest catheter       ablation attempts involved direct current delivered using a defibrillator, but beginning in       1985, radiofrequency energy was employed in man. This promised to revolutionize the field of       catheter ablation, because it offered the hope of more precise destruction of tissue, avoided       the need for general anesthesia and significantly lowered complication rates, since it did       not involve the levels of energy used in direct current attempts.        The Catheter Ablation Registry (CAR) evolved from a pilot study, the Percutaneous Cardiac       Mapping and Ablation Registry (PCMAR) formed in 1983. There were scientific limitations in       this voluntary registry. Further prospective studies were needed to better define this       procedure, and a multicenter international prospective cohort study was designed to allow a       rapid assessment of ablation's dangers and potential usefulness. Results from the study were       used to guide physicians as to which patients would and would not benefit from these new       procedures.        DESIGN NARRATIVE:        Data were collected prospectively from sixteen clinical centers in the United States and       Europe on attempted catheter ablation of the atrioventricular junction, accessory       atrioventricular pathways and ventricular tachycardia. Each of the three ablation techniques       was studied as a separate subset and the two methods of energy delivery, direct current or       radiofrequency energy, were compared within each subset. A standardized protocol was used for       direct current ablation and the results of a variety of protocols for the other two       procedures and for radiofrequency energy were observed. Patients were evaluated quarterly in       the first post-procedure year, and biannually for the subsequent duration of the study.       Statistical analyses were performed to determine the distribution of specific patient       characteristics such as age, sex, clinical status, underlying heart disease, and a variety of       procedural categories including energy level, mapping data, and catheter position. A       determination was made of the frequency of successful outcomes including cessation of       arrhythmias, production of third degree atrioventricular block, and disappearance of symptoms       and of adverse effects, including procedure-related complications and death.        The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in       the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
nan
nan
nan
nan
This clinical study was a prospective, multi-center, clinical evaluation to document safety       and effectiveness of the EASYTRAK 3 lead in humans. Patients implanted with the EASYTRAK 3       lead were followed through pre-discharge, 1-month, 3-month and 6-month follow-ups
Inappropriate sinus tachycardia syndrome describes a condition in which a patient's heart       rate is intermittently (or persistently) higher than expected for the physiological       circumstances, with ECG appearance indistinguishable from normal sinus rhythm, after the       exclusion of medical conditions causing sinus tachycardia.        Hypothesis- Radiofrequency ablation, targeting the sympathetic input of the sinus node       identified by 20Hz stimulation at the junction of the superior vena cava and the right       atrium, will effectively reduce sinus rate acutely and will reduce palpitations due to       inappropriate sinus tachycardia without the need for pacemaker implantation due to sinus node       dysfunction post ablation.
Classically the right ventricular pacing (RV) lead position is the RV apex. Several small       studies suggested that the septal position which provided a more physiological conduction       pattern would improve left ventricular function and dimensions and the patients' outcome.        The SEPTAL-PM study is a parallel randomized prospective simple-blinded and multicenter       national study with a follow-up duration of 18 month. A total of 180 patients will be       enrolled.        It was designed to demonstrate that in patients requiring permanent RV pacing for high degree       atrio-ventricular conduction disorders the septal pacing would preserve the LVEF and LV       dimensions but also the quality of life and the exercise tolerance.        The primary endpoint is the evolution of the LVEF assessed by contrast echocardiography. The       secondary endpoints are: the quality of life SF 36 questionnaire, the NYHA class, the       6-minute-walk test, the QRS duration, the LV end-systolic and diastolic volumes, the NT-pro       BNP, MMP 2-9 and TIMP-1 dosages, stimulation and detection ventricular thresholds.        Other reported parameters are: the probes position and electric parameters, all causes of       mortality, cardiovascular mortality, hospitalisations for cardiovascular causes, serious       adverse events.
nan
nan
Light has long been proposed to have a stimulatory effect on a range of biological functions       in humans including increased feelings of activation, such as improved alertness or ability       to perform. The mechanisms underlying how light stimulates these neurobiological systems       remain to be elucidated. We propose to investigate the effects of different colors of light       on human physiology, and in particular, test the claims that specific colors of light       preferentially stimulate neurobiological, physiological and hormonal systems. Using classical       photobiological techniques, we will construct action spectra for the effects of different       colors of light on a range of non-image forming responses in humans.        We will test the hypotheses that: 1) light-induced activation of the neurobiological       sleep-wake regulatory system, as indicated by increased alertness, faster reaction time,       suppression of EEG alpha activity, microsleeps and slow rolling eye movements, and       suppression of pineal melatonin, is most sensitive to retinal exposure to short wavelength       blue light (460 nm) compared to equal photons of other colors of visible light; 2)       light-induced activation of autonomic and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis measures of       arousal, as indicated by increased heart rate variability, core body temperature, blood       pressure, respiration rate, plasma cortisol levels and urinary catecholamines, is most       sensitive to exposure to short wavelength blue light (460 nm) compared to equal photons of       other colors; 3) phase shifts of the human circadian pacemaker, as assessed by changes in       temperature, melatonin and cortisol rhythms, are most sensitive to exposure to short       wavelength blue light (460 nm) compared to equal photons of other colors. The resultant       action spectra will help to identify the photoreceptor mechanism(s) by which light activates       arousal and circadian resetting, these non-image-forming physiological responses and enable       us to distinguish between major candidate photoreceptive mechanisms, including potential       novel photoreceptor systems, that might mediate such responses.
nan
nan
nan
Despite recent advances in medicine, rehabilitation of the paralyzed larynx remains a complex       clinical problem. Based on national health statistics, it is anticipated approximately 7,000       patients will be diagnosed with BVFP in the United States each year. BVFP is a serious and       often life-threatening clinical condition. The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) carries motor       fibers that innervate both the abductor muscle (posterior cricoarytenoid muscle) and adductor       muscles of the vocal folds. Damage to the nerve compromises both of these functions and       arrests the vocal folds in a near-closed position. With BVFP, voice tends to be functional,       but airway compromise is often severe enough to warrant tracheotomy to relieve inspiratory       stridor and dyspnea. If spontaneous recovery does not occur within one year, it is likely       that the patient's vocal folds will be chronically paralyzed. In such instances, long-term       tracheostomy can be considered. Unfortunately, permanent tracheostomy is associated with       complications such as tracheal stenosis, chronic infection, and psycho-social impairment. For       this reason, laryngeal surgery is usually recommended to enlarge the airway and restore       breathing through the mouth. Procedures such as arytenoidectomy, cordotomy, or repeated Botox       injections, regarded as the standard of care for enlarging the airway, also have inherent       complications. Specifically, they impair voice and compromise airway protection during       swallowing. The limitations associated with these current treatments have prompted       investigation into a more physiologic, dynamic approach to rehabilitation: reanimation of the       paralyzed PCA muscle by functional electrical stimulation (FES). Ideally, stimulation should       be applied during the inspiratory phase of respiration to abduct the vocal folds. This has       been termed "laryngeal pacing". During non-inspiratory phases, stimulation would cease, and       the vocal folds would passively relax to the midline to allow for normal voice production and       airway protection. Previously, our clinical trial of unilateral pacing demonstrated a       significantly greater return of ventilation without any compromise of voice or swallowing.       However, the level of ventilation was only marginally better than that associated with       cordotomy.        In the current project, we will investigate the safety of a novel intervention (laryngeal       pacing) for BVFP (Aim 1). The overarching hypothesis is that neuromuscular activation of the       PCA muscles bilaterally reestablishes bilateral glottal opening and ventilation through the       mouth without alteration of voice or swallowing, compared to a sham-operated control (Aim 2).       The ventilation from bilateral pacing should be significantly greater than from unilateral       pacing and allow the patient to engage in a normal pre-paralysis activity level (Aim 3).
Consecutive patients with severe aortic stenosis with indication to aortic balloon       valvuloplasty will be enrolled. An ad hoc informed consent for the procedure will be obtained       from all patients.        This is a prospective observational study. The Investigators will include patients where       aortic ballloon valvuloplasty is attempted by radial access and without temporary pacemaker       implantation. The aim is to register and monitor the effectiveness and safety of this       approach. Details regarding management of radial access and pacing with 0.035 wire can be       found in the references reported below. The primary endpoint will be the 30-day occurence of       minor and major vascular complications according VARC 2 classification. The safety endpoint       will be the absence of intra- or periprocedural major complications in transradial balloon       aortic valvuloplasty, namely balloon entrapment or compartment syndrome requiring surgical       intervention.        The feasibility endpoint will be a procedural success rate ≥90%. The efficacy endpoint will       be a reduction of the mean invasive gradient >30%. At baseline, Handgrip strength test will       be performed and angiography of the instrumented arm will be performed at the beginning and       at the end of the procedure. All patients will be prospectively followed-up for at least 30       days and all adverse events will be recorded. All patients will be assessed also for frailty       according the clinical frailty scale (CFS). During the 30-day follow-up visit two independent       blinded operators will evaluate radial artery patency by ultrasonography and perform handgrip       strength test in in both arms in all patients.
This is a prospective, open-label, randomized trial, with 1:1 randomization to either       continued NOAC or interrupted NOAC in patients with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation or       atrial flutter and at moderate to high risk of arterial thrombo-embolic events who require       device surgery.        All patients in the study will be receiving Dabigatran or Rivaroxaban or Apixaban for at       least 5 days prior to enrollment. The peri-operative management of the NOAC the patient is       receiving is randomized to Interrupted NOAC or Continued NOAC.        Interrupted NOAC arm:          1. Interrupted Dabigatran               -  based on renal function, patients will discontinue Dabigatran 1 day before surgery                 if GFR > 50 mL/min, and 2 days before surgery if GFR is 30-50 mL/min.               -  Dabigatran will be resumed at the next regular dose time, > or = 24 hours after the                 end of surgery.          2. Interrupted Rivaroxaban               -  patients will discontinue Rivaroxaban 1 full day before surgery.               -  Rivaroxaban will be resumed at the next regular dose time, > or = 24 hours after                 the end of surgery.          3. Interrupted Apixaban               -  patients will discontinue Apixaban 1 full day before surgery.               -  Apixaban will be resumed at the next regular dose time, > or = 24 hours after the                 end of surgery.        Continued NOAC arm:        -patients will continue their chronic dose of Dabigatran or Rivaroxaban or Apixaban       throughout.        All patients will have a baseline clinical lab test of serum creatinine or GRF measured.        Patients will be seen post-op on the day of their surgery for assessment of the surgical site       and each day throughout their hospital stay by a blinded member of the research team. A       telephone follow-up will be done on day 3-4 post surgery by an unblinded team member. All       patients are seen 1-2 weeks post-op at their first routine post-op device clinic visit, for       surgical site assessment by the blinded assessor and to complete Quality of Life       questionnaires. Patients will be seen for assessment in the case of any bleeding or       development of pocket swelling or hematoma. Patients developing a hematoma will be followed       until resolution of the hematoma.
Perhaps the strongest clinical association with autoantibodies against SSA/Ro-SSB/La is the       development of congenital heart block (CHB) in an offspring, an alarming prospect facing 2%       of primigravid mothers with these antibodies. Recurrence rates approach 20%. Disease can       progress rapidly, with advanced block and life-threatening cardiomyopathy observed less than       2 weeks from normal sinus rhythm. Once 3rd degree (complete) block is identified, reversal       has never been achieved, despite dexamethasone. This makes biologic sense since the signature       lesion is fibrosis of the atrioventricular node. Thus, strategies aimed at preventing disease       assume high priority. Although disease expression in the fetus requires additional factors to       amplify the cascade to fibrosis, maternal anti-Ro/La antibodies are necessary. Accordingly,       eliminating fetal exposure to these antibodies is a sound and important approach. Intravenous       immune globulin (IVIG) is particularly exciting in its potential not only to lower maternal       antibody levels (which is not accomplished with glucocorticoids or immunosuppression), but       actually to influence effector mechanisms in the fetus itself. Aim 1 is a clinical trial to       assess the efficacy of IVIG in preventing CHB. Proof of efficacy is challenging since CHB       occurs in only 2% of first pregnancies of anti-Ro/La+ women. However, given the 10-fold       higher risk of CHB in a pregnancy after the birth of child with neonatal lupus (NL), mothers       with previous NL-affected children are the target population for study. Sample size       calculations employ Simon's 2-stage optimal design. Based on a 2-sided significance level of       0.05, a power of 90% to show reduction of risk to 5% given the prediction that 18% of       untreated subjects will get some degree of CHB, Stage 1 will enroll 19 women who have had a       previous child with CHB or NL rash, to receive IVIG (400 mg/kg IVIG every 3 weeks for a total       of 5 treatments) from weeks 12 through 24 of gestation. If fewer than 3 mothers have children       with 2nd or 3rd degree block, then an additional 35 mothers will be enrolled in Stage 2       (total = 54 subjects). IVIG will be considered efficacious and worthy of further study if       fewer than 6 of 54 subjects have a child with advanced CHB. Secondary outcomes include 1st       degree block, myocardial injury absent conduction defects, and isolated endocardial       fibroelastosis as assessed by serial fetal echocardiograms and EKG at birth.        Aim 2 will address: a) the effect of IVIG on antibody titer and subclass; b) genetic       polymorphisms in Fc gamma receptor (FcgR) and platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase and       their potential association with response to IVIG; c) whether a decrease in anti-La       antibodies positively correlates with the level of anti-La antiidiotypic antibodies; d)       whether IVIG blocks expression of activation markers on human macrophages after challenge       with opsonized apoptotic cardiocytes and whether this positively correlates with increased       expression of the inhibitory Fc receptor, FcgRIIb.        In sum, IVIG is a promising agent that may have effects at several levels of the pathologic       cascade to antibody-mediated CHB.
nan
Pilot study for testing tools pre and post-treatment images echocardiography but also MRI       with a descriptive purpose and identification of the computed parameters should be       secondarily test a large multicenter cohort . Patients in the study will be explored in       RICART preimplantation as then in the manner used in current clinical routine. The use of       data by cons will focus on the study of new tools ever compared in the same patients.        Data echocardiography (as with other techniques) are those used in clinical routine. Then,       the data processing to be carried characterized the asynchrony posteriori, regardless of       initial clinical data on a dedicated search software. Each quantitative parameter will be       compared with others in order to predict the response to resynchronization. Response       prediction of threshold values to the resynchronization can be obtained and compared to each       of the tools. The value of relative and an addition to another may be tested.        The predictive value of the change (delta) of each parameter between the pre- and       post-implantation to predict response to al resynchronization, will be evaluated.
nan
Multi-center, cluster crossover, unblinded, pilot study. Centers will be randomized to       conventional vs. incremental antibiotic therapy for 2 months or until eligible 20 patients       are treated, whichever comes first. At 2 months, centers will have a crossover period of 4       weeks where the alternate strategy is implemented, followed by the final 2-month/20 patient       enrolment period. During each treatment period the randomized antibiotic strategy will be       used on all center patients undergoing a device implant procedure. Prior to the planned       surgery or at the first follow up visit, patients who meet the study eligibility criteria       will be approached to obtain consent for data collection purposes. Follow up will be       according to usual clinical care at the center.
Patients who has Atrioventricular block scheduled for artificial pacemaker Randomized select       1:1 apex beats and ventricular septal beat.
nan
Title: A DANish randomized, controlled, multicenter study to assess the efficacy of       Implantable cardioverter defibrillator in patients with non-ischemic Systolic Heart failure       on mortality.        Indication: Prevention of mortality in patients at risk of sudden death.        Primary objective: The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of ICD       therapy compared with control on the endpoint of death from any cause.        Secondary objective: The secondary objectives of the study are to determine if ICD therapy       reduces cardiovascular death as well as sudden death.        Study design: Randomized, unblinded, controlled, parallel two group trial.        Primary endpoint: Time to death from any cause.        Sample size: In total, 1000 patients with 500 receiving ICD and 500 patients constituting the       control group.        Summary of Subject Eligibility Criteria: Patients with clinical heart failure, left       ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤ 35%, non-ischemic etiology and NT-proBNP above 200       pg/ml. Patients in NYHA class IV will only be randomised if also fulfilling criteria for a       biventricular pacemaker.        Control group: Patients receiving standard therapy for heart failure including       ACE-inhibitor/Angiotensin-Receptor-Blocker and Betablocker unless not tolerated. Aldosterone       antagonism is optional.        Study Duration: The study comprises a screening period of up to 2 years, followed by a       treatment phase of a minimum of 36 months.        Screening and Randomisation: After the signing of informed consent, screening will include       medical history, vital signs, physical exam, blood chemistry, haematology, and NT-proBNP.       After fulfilling all eligibility criteria, subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive ICD       implantation or continue usual control. Randomisation will be stratified according to       treatment with a biventricular pacemaker.        Treatment: After randomisation patients allocated to ICD treatment should receive this as       fast as possible and preferably within 2 weeks (latest 4 weeks). The ICD will be programmed       with anti-tachycardia pacing and shock therapy.        Assessments: Deaths and hospitalisations for heart failure, stroke or arrhythmias will be       recorded throughout the study duration. An Endpoint Classification Committee will adjudicate       hospitalizations and deaths for causality.        An independent Data Monitoring Committee will periodically review mortality data throughout       the study.        Statistical Considerations: Median lifetime in the control group is expected to be 5 years. A       p-value of 5% (2-sided) is required for significance together with a power of at least 80%.       With a relative risk reduction of 25% a sample size of 812 patients in total is required. In       order to allow for cross-over a sample size of 1000 is planned.        As event rate was lower than expected the steering committee decided to prolong follow-up and       increase sample size slightly to 1150 patients. Secondly, the steering comittee decided to       add cardiovascular death as a secondary outcome.        Primary Endpoint Analysis: The principal analysis for the primary endpoint (time to death       from any cause) will employ the intent-to-treat principle and use a survival analysis. For       each treatment group, Kaplan-Meier curves will be estimated, graphically displayed, and       compared using a logrank test. A covariate-adjusted analysis of the primary endpoint using a       Cox proportional hazards model will be performed as a supportive analysis. The hazard ratio       and its corresponding 95% confidence interval will be estimated. Subjects withdrawing from       the study early (other than for withdrawal of consent) will be followed for potential       development of the primary endpoint. Subjects completing the study and not experiencing the       composite event will be censored.        Secondary Endpoint Analysis: All time-to-event secondary endpoints will be analyzed similarly       to the primary endpoint.        Sample Size: Hazard rates have been estimated for the placebo and ICD groups using subjects       from a variety of databases (including the Echos database and the publication of Definite).       Assuming a 24-month enrollment period and a 36 month follow-up period (resulting in a 5-year       study with a minimum treatment period of 3 years and approximately a median survival time of       60 months), a total of 812 subjects will provide a 80% power with a 2-sided significance       level of 5% for detecting a reduction in hazard of 25%.        Safety Summary: The subject incidence of adverse events will be tabulated for each group.       Adverse events related to ICD implantation will be summarized. During the trial inappropriate       shocks will be summarized.        Data Monitoring Committee: An independent Data Monitoring Committee consisting of members       with relevant expertise will be assembled prior to study commencement. This committee will       periodically review safety data.        Endpoint Classification Committee: An external Endpoint Classification Committee will       adjudicate death as sudden or non-sudden throughout the study.
Many patients with heart failure benefit from cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) which       involves implantation of a pacemaker to improve the coordination of heart function. However,       approximately 30-40% of patients fail to respond to this therapy with current selection       criteria. We hypothesize that patients with echocardiographic and MRI measures of a high       degree of LV mechanical dyssynchrony are more likely to benefit from CRT than patients with       less baseline dyssynchrony. Severe LV remodeling as measured by MRI may also predict patients       less likely to benefit from therapy. In addition, myocardial fibrosis/scarring as measured by       MRI delayed enhancement imaging may predict segments or subjects less likely to respond to       CRT even in patients without ischemic heart disease. In this study, patients with New York       Heart Association class III - IV heart failure will undergo imaging and stress testing prior       to CRT pacemaker implantation and 6 months later to determine predictors of response.       Considering the complexity of the protocol and novelty of some aspects of the MRI       examination, we consider this an exploratory observational protocol.
nan
nan
LANDMARK Trial is a prospective, randomized, multinational, multicentric, open-label       non-inferiority trial of approximately 768 subjects (384:384, Myval THV Series vs.       Contemporary Valves) with severe symptomatic native aortic valve stenosis via transfemoral       approach.          -  Device sizes applicable for the Myval THV Series: 20 mm, 21.5 mm, 23 mm, 24.5 mm, 26 mm,            27.5 mm, and 29 mm diameter.          -  Device sizes applicable for the Sapien 3 THV Series: 20 mm, 23 mm, 26 mm, and 29 mm            diameter.          -  Device sizes applicable for the Evolut THV Series: 23 mm, 26 mm, 29 mm, and 34 mm            diameter.        The randomization will be carried out with an allocation ratio of 1:1 between Myval THV       Series vs. Contemporary Valves (Sapien THV Series and Evolut THV Series) (Stratification and       equal allocation will be done for each valve within contemporary valves, i.e., 50% Sapien THV       Series and 50% Evolut THV Series)
This is a prospective study designed to evaluate the role of contrast enhanced mammography       (CEM) in screening for breast cancer. The overarching goal of the research program is to       improve cancer detection on screening, particularly in women with dense breasts. MRI depicts       more cancers than other screening methods, including ultrasound. MRI is proven to both       improve cancer detection and reduce clinically detected cancers ("interval cancers") after a       negative screening mammogram in women with dense breasts. PA Senate Bill 595, signed into law       June 30, 2020, requires insurance carriers to provide coverage for supplemental screening       with MRI or ultrasound for a variety of indications. Relative to the number of women who may       benefit from screening MRI, there is a shortage of equipment/capacity. Further, nearly half       of women cannot have an MRI for medical or other reasons, such as claustrophobia, implanted       devices, body habitus, or cost (deductible and copay apply even with the new legislation).       Contrast-enhanced mammography (CEM) appears to have similar performance to MRI but has not       been widely validated, particularly for screening. In order to lay the foundation for       improved screening of women with dense breasts, the investigators seek to offer screening CEM       as an alternative to MRI for women who meet guidelines for screening MRI but are unable to       have MRI.
Symptoms of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) in humans resemble seasonal changes that occur       in animals. Moreover, in both humans and animals, the occurrence of these changes is       regulated by light. In animals the circadian pacemaker regulates seasonal behavior by       transmitting a signal of daylength to other sites in the organism. This signal is expressed,       reciprocally, in the duration of nocturnal melatonin secretion, which is longer in winter and       shorter in summer. Sites distal to the pineal that regulate seasonal behavior read and       respond to this melatonin signal of change of season. In a longitudinal study, we showed that       a homologous melatonin signal of change of season is present in patients with SAD but not in       healthy volunteers. In light of the animal models, this finding raises the possibility that       seasonal changes in duration of melatonin secretion govern the course of illness in patients       with SAD. If so, then an intervention that shortens the duration of melatonin secretion in       winter and thereby mimics the effect of summer days should improve symptoms of winter       depression. To test this hypothesis, we propose to administer propranolol, a beta-adrenergic       receptor blocking medication that is frequently prescribed for the treatment of hypertension,       to patients with SAD in the winter. We will administer propranolol at a time of night when it       would suppress and shorten the duration of melatonin secretion and then ascertain whether       this intervention improves depression. A unique feature of this parallel-design, controlled       clinical trial is that propranolol, when administered at a time of day when melatonin is not       secreted, can serve as its own active placebo.
nan
Patients with bundle branch block have a delayed electrical activation of the left ventricle       causing abnormal contractility of the left ventricle.        We hypothesize that patients may benefit from short term (= 72 hours) CRT (Cardiac       Resynchronization Therapy) in the early phase after open heart surgery.        Patients: reduced LV function and bundle branch block.        Study type: randomisation to CRT versus standard postoperative treatment        Study variables: cardiac output, echocardiographic measures, p-BNP and hours with inotropic       therapy.
LEAP-BLOCK is a prospective, multi-center, randomized controlled trial that is designed to       determine whether left bundle branch area pacing (LBBAP) may reduce the risk of RV       ventricular pacing induced cardiac dysfunction as compared with traditional RV pacing (RVP)       in patients with atrioventricular (AV) block and normal LV function (LVEF≥50%) who require       high percent of ventricular pacing. The primary aim of this trial is to compare the time to       first event (composite of all-cause mortality and newly heart failure hospitalization and       device upgrade due to heart failure) between LBBAP and RVP group in patients with AV block.       Patients with AV block and normal LV function who require high burden of ventricular pacing       (expected >40%) will be randomized to LBBAP or RVP group for therapy. Patients will be       followed at least every 3 months for clinical status and every 6 months for echocardiographic       evaluation until the study closure.
1. Basis for the study/study rationale Patients with congestive heart failure have high            rates of mortality and morbidity (1). There are 5 million people in the United States            that have congestive heart failure (CHF) and 52,828 new cases are diagnosed annually.            There are 995,000 hospital visits with 52,828 deaths annually due to this condition.            Although there have been numerous medical advances in drug therapy, there was a 164%            increase in the number of hospital admissions for CHF since 1979 (1, 2).             Biventricular (BiV) pacing has been shown to have acute and chronic benefits in a subset            of patients with CHF (3-6). Those that have been shown to benefit from this mode of            therapy have left ventricular systolic dysfunction with a widened QRS duration on the            electrocardiogram. Acute hemodynamic studies comparing patients at baseline with either            right ventricular (RV) or BiV pacing show significant improvements in the systolic blood            pressure and cardiac output in patients with BiV pacing compared to either RV pacing or            baseline measurements (3, 4). Furthermore, BiV pacing was associated with decrease in            the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) and diastolic mitral regurgitation. These            acute hemodynamic benefits are sustained and manifest as improvements in clinical            symptoms. The Multisite Stimulation in Cardiomyopathies (MUSTIC) study showed that BiV            pacing was associated with a 23% increase in the distance walked in six minutes            (P<0.001), a 32% increase in the quality-of-life score (P<0.001), an 8% increase in the            peak oxygen uptake (P<0.03), and a 66% decrease in the need for hospitalization (P<0.05)            compared to no pacing (5). Patients also preferred BiV pacing compared to no pacing            (P<0.001). The Multicenter InSync Randomized Clinical Evaluation (MIRACLE) study not            only confirmed many of the findings of the MUSTIC trial, but also showed improvement in            the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with BiV pacing (+4.6% vs. -0.2%,            P<0.001), compared to non-paced controls (6). Such data has led to the classification of            BiV pacing in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy as a class IIa recommendation by            ACC/AHA/NASPE guidelines (7).             Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with left ventricular dysfunction            carries a high mortality (8). Furthermore, patients with a low LVEF have a greater need            for intraaortic balloon pump (P<0.0001) and inotropic support (P<0.001) with a longer            length of hospital stay (P<0.002) compared with those with normal LVEF (9, 10).             Conduction system abnormalities following CABG are common (11, 12). The majority of            these abnormalities are transient and are often managed using temporary epicardial            pacing. Hence, all patients that undergo CABG receive epicardial leads as a            precautionary measure. These leads are placed on the right or left ventricle and the            right atrium. When patients are felt to no longer require these, they are removed            easily. The role of BiV pacing in this setting is unknown. Whether patients that have            left ventricular dysfunction would have improved post-operative mortality, less need for            intraaortic balloon pump and inotropic support, and shorter length of hospital stay is            unknown.          2. Objectives Our hypothesis is that BiV pacing immediately following CABG will improve            in-hospital outcomes in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction.             Endpoints:             Primary: -Length of ICU stay             Secondary: -In-hospital mortality               -  Length of hospital stay               -  Duration of inotropic support               -  Duration of intraaortic ballon pump support               -  Duration of mechanical ventillation               -  Change in stroke volume with biventricular pacing               -  Change in ventricular synchrony with biventricular pacing          3. Methodology All patients that are scheduled for CABG or valve surgery and meet the            inclusion criteria will be approached for consent pre-operatively. Once consent is            obtained the patient will be randomized into one of three treatment arms: usual care, RV            pacing, or BiV pacing. The patients will then undergo surgery as per routine. During            cardiovascular surgery patients routinely receive epicardial pacing leads that are            placed on the right or left ventricle and the right atrium. For the purposes of this            study, epicardial pacing leads will be placed on both the right and left ventricles as            well as the right atrium.             After surgery is completed, the patients will receive either usual care, RV pacing, or            BiV pacing depending upon their treatment arms. Intraoperative transesophageal            echocardiography (TEE) is routinely performed during cardiac surgery. If TEE is being            used in the subject images will be recorded with biventricular pacing, right ventricular            pacing and no pacing in the first 30 patients studied to quantify changes in vetricular            synchrony with biventricular pacing. Once the patient arrives in the SICU hemodynmic            monitoring will be performed as usual. All patients return from the operating room with            a pulmonary artery catheter. In the first 50 patients the stroke volume will be obtained            by thermodilution method using the pulmonary artery catheter in their assigned treatment            arm as well as following 2 minutes of right ventricular pacing and again following 2            minutes of biventricular pacing. Pacing will be continued in the assigned treatment arm            until all inotropic and intraortic ballon pump support has been weaned off. Crossover in            treatment arms is discouraged, but will be at the discretion of the treating physicians.            The epicardial pacing leads will be removed as per routine.          4. Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria             Inclusion Criteria:               1. Age > 18 years               2. Planned CABG and/or valve surgery               3. LVEF < 30%               4. Able to give written informed consent             Exclusion Criteria:               1. Enrollment in other research protocols               2. Inability to give written informed consent               3. Pregnancy          5. Methods of data acquisition and analysis Clinical, operative, and in-hospital            information for each subject will be recorded on standardized case report forms (see            attached) at the time of hospitalization or soon after discharge. The characteristics of            those that received BiV pacing will be compared to those that received either no pacing            or RV pacing. The data will be recorded in a manner such that there are no patient            identifiers. The information will then be transferred to a computer database. The case            report forms will be kept under lock and key on the third floor of the WBH Heart Center.            The computer data base will be password protected. Only the investigators will have            access to the case report forms or computer database.          6. References               1. American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics - 2004Update.                 Dallas, Texas: American Heart Association; 2003.               2. Braunwald E, Bristow MR. Congestive heart failure: fifty years of progress.                 Circulation 2000; 102 (suppl 4):IV14-IV23.               3. Blanc JJ, Etienne Y, Gilard M et al. Evaluation of different ventricular pacing                 sites in patients with severe heart failure. Results of an acute hemodynamic study.                 Circulation 1997;96:3273-3277.               4. Leclercq C, Cazeau S, Breton HL et al. Acute hemodynamic effects of biventricular                 DDD pacing in patients with end-stage heart failure. J Am Coll Cardiol                 1998;32:1825-1831.               5. Cazeau S, Leclercq C, Lavergne T et al. Effects of multisite biventricular pacing                 in patients with heart failure and intraventricular conduction delay. N Engl J Med                 2001;334:873-80.               6. Abraham WT, Fisher WG, Smith AL et al. Cardiac resynchronization in chronic heart                 failure. N Engl J Med 2002;346:1845-53.               7. Gregoratos G, Abrams J, Epstein AE et al. ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 guideline update for                 implantation of cardiac pacemakers and antiarrhythmia devices: summary article: a                 report of the Am College of Cardiology/Am Heart Association Task Force on Practice                 Guidelines (ACC/AHA/NASPE Committee to Update the 1998 Pacemaker Guidelines).                 Circulation 2002;106:2145-2161.               8. Alderman EL, Fisher LD, Litwin P et al. Results of coronary artery surgery in                 patients with poor left ventricular function (CASS). Circulation 1983;68:785-95.               9. Trachiotis GD, Weintraub WS, Johnston TS et al. Coronary artery bypass grafting in                 patients with advanced left ventricular dysfunction. Ann Thorac Surg                 1998;66:1632-1639.              10. Antunes PE, Ferrao de Oliveira JM, and Antunes MJ. Coronary surgery with                 non-cardioplegic methods in patients with advanced left ventricular dysfunction:                 immediate and long term results. Heart 2003;89:427-431.              11. Pires LA, Wagshal AB, Lancey R et al. Arrhythmias and conduction disturbances after                 coronary artery bypass graft surgery: epidemiology, management, and prognosis. Am                 Heart J 1995;129:799-808.              12. Mustonen P, Hippelainen M, Vanninen E et al. Significance of coronary artery bypass                 grafting-associated conduction defects. Am J Cardiol 1998;81:558-563.
nan
nan
The purpose of the DOUBEL-CHOICE study is to demonstrate non-inferiority of a       latest-generation self-expanding valve (SEV) (ACURATE neo2, Boston Scientific, Marlborough,       MA, USA) in comparison to another latest-generation SEV (Evolut Pro and Pro+, Medtronic Inc.,       Minneapolis, MN, USA) and isolated local anesthesia in comparison with local anesthesia and       conscious sedation with respect to safety and efficacy in patients with severe symptomatic       aortic stenosis undergoing transfemoral TAVI.
nan
Bone is the third most common organ involved by metastatic disease behind lung and liver [6].       In breast cancer, bone is the second most common site of metastatic spread, and 90% of       patients dying of breast cancer have bone metastasis. Breast and prostate cancer metastasize       to bone most frequently, which reflects the high incidence of both these tumors, as well as       their prolonged clinical courses. Post-cancer survival has increased with improvement in       early detection and treatments. As a consequence, the number of patients developing       metastatic bone disease during their lifetime has also increased.        Current treatments for patients with bone metastases are primarily palliative and include       localized therapies (radiation and surgery), systemic therapies (chemotherapy, hormonal       therapy, radiopharmaceutical, and bisphosphonates although the primary goal of the use of       these therapies are often to address the disease itself), and analgesics (opioids and       non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Recently, radiofrequency ablation has been tested as       a treatment option for bone metastases [8]. Currently, an off label use of Cryoablation       techniques are being tested as another alternative for bone Mets palliation. The main goals       of these treatments are improvement of quality of life and functional level. These goals can       be further described:          1. Pain relief          2. Preservation and restoration of function          3. Local tumor control          4. Skeletal stabilization        Treatment with external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) is the standard of care for patients       with localized bone pain, and results in the palliation of pain for many of these patients.       Twenty to 30% of patients treated with radiation therapy do not experience pain relief       [9-13]. Re-treatment rates are generally reported in the range of 10-25%. Many patients with       relapsed pain or poor response to initial radiation may be lost to follow up or may not be       referred back to oncologists for consideration of re-radiation. In addition to relapse and       re-treatment, there is an increased risk of pathologic fracture in the peri-radiation period.       The fracture rate reported in radiation studies is generally in the range of 1% to 8%. The       hyperemic response weakens the adjacent bone and increases the risk of spontaneous fracture.       Furthermore, patients who have recurrent pain at a site previously irradiated may not be       eligible for further radiation therapy secondary to limitations in normal tissue tolerance.       Hesitation on the part of physicians to use a larger dose may be related to increased       long-term toxicity. Larger radiation dose produces a greater risk of complications such as       fibrosis of normal soft tissue, which can cause a decrement in the quality of life in cases       of life expectancy longer than 6 months. There may also be a greater incidence of acute side       effects of nausea and vomiting if the treatment field includes the stomach. The percent of       patients experiencing vomiting following EBRT ranges from about 5% to 30%.        A palliative treatment for painful bone metastases that is non-invasive, without long-term       toxicity and having minimal complications would be a useful tool for treating physicians and       also a beneficial option for patients suffering from painful bone metastases. Results of       preliminary studies indicate that ExAblate treatment of painful bone metastases may be a       beneficial treatment option [14, 15]. The ExAblate system is a non-invasive thermal ablation       device used in the coagulation of various types of soft tissue. The ExAblate system has the       potential to achieve the first three of the four previously mentioned goals in the treatment       of bone tumors; namely pain relief, preservation and restoration of functional levels and       local tumor control [11]. The ExAblate system used in the present study is a technological       advance over the ExAblate 2000 fixed transducer system in terms of flexibility of use and       reduction of positioning related pain to the patients. The ExAblate system used in this study       conforms to the patient's body shape at the location of the bone mets location
nan
Syncope is sudden transient loss of consciousness followed by spontaneous complete recovery;       it is a very common problem and can be a precursor to sudden death. This study will increase       the early identification of patients with serious underlying arrhythmia by combining our       Canadian Syncope Arrhythmia Risk Score (CSARS) with innovative remote (out-of-hospital)       monitoring technology. Approximately 2-3% of ED syncope patients will suffer arrhythmia or       die from unknown cause within 30-days of ED disposition (in-patient or outside the hospital).       It is the concern for occult arrhythmia and its associated mortality that leads to prolonged       cardiac monitoring in the ED, observation units or by hospitalization; and wide variations in       investigations and hospitalization. New and innovative technology has made remote monitoring       feasible for prolonged periods (15-30 days), and is reliable. This technology allows       arrhythmias to be transmitted live to a central monitoring station automatically based on the       device algorithm or by the touch of a button when patients are symptomatic. However, lack of       tools to identify those at risk has limited the use of this new technology to improve patient       outcomes. The CSARS tool, developed to predict the 30-day risk of arrhythmia/death showed       that higher-risk (score ≥3) patients have a 17.2% observed risk arrhythmia/death within 15       days. The aim of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to compare the diagnostic yield of       15-day event monitor to 48-hour holter monitor (usual care) among higher-risk syncope       patients discharged home at 10 Canadian EDs.        Context: Currently, only holter monitoring (records all cardiac beats) for 1-2 days is used       and prolonged monitoring devices are not used for arrhythmia detection. The majority of       syncope patients are not monitored when symptomatic. Arrhythmias are detected only if evident       when patients seek care. The investigators recently completed a multicenter prospective       syncope study and developed the Canadian Syncope Arrhythmia Risk Score (CSARS). Our results       show that most serious conditions are identified within the first few hours in ED among the       low and moderate-risk patients while for non low-risk patients the risk of arrhythmia remains       high up to 15 days indicating the need for prolonged monitoring.        Previous studies and Rationale: A small randomized study with the old technology that       required patient activation for arrhythmia capture found higher diagnostic yield than holter;       but the utility was limited due to patients' inability to activate the device after symptoms.       Two small studies of unselected syncope patients, one prospective (n=48) and another registry       analysis (n=92) found a diagnostic yield 30 - 38% with prolonged monitoring for 7-33 days.       The diagnostic yield of holter is 1-20% based on the risk of enrolled patients. The role of       prolonged cardiac monitoring among ED syncope patients has not been well studied. Only holter       monitoring is being currently used, but inconsistently and is applied a few days later. With       the technological advances, the investigators hypothesize that 15-day monitoring will lead to       higher diagnostic yield than holter and plan to apply the devices before disposition for       high-risk patients discharged home.        Objectives: The primary objective of the REMOSYNC study is to compare diagnostic yield       (identification of arrhythmia that requires treatment or exclusion of an arrhythmic cause)       for the following two strategies in higher-risk ED syncope patients discharged home from ED:       15-day external cardiac event monitoring (intervention arm) versus 48-hour Holter monitoring       (control arm) Design and Setting: The study will be a multicenter two-arm, double blinded       randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing two different approaches for detecting serious       arrhythmias among high-risk ED syncope patients who are discharged home. Half of the study       patients will be randomized to 15-day external cardiac monitoring (intervention group) and       the other half will be assigned to 48-hour Holter monitoring (control group and current       practice pattern).        Patient Recruitment: Consecutive patients who fulfill inclusion and do not meet any exclusion       criteria will be approached for recruitment at the participating EDs and enrolled after       informed written consent.        Randomization: Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either receive a 15-day event       monitor Cardiophone (intervention arm) or a 48-hour holter monitoring with the MCT device       (control arm). Patients will be stratified based on the total CSARS score: 3-4; 5-6; and 7-8       and allocated using randomly permuted blocks of varying lengths. Allocations will be       computer-generated by an independent statistician and concealed by having research staff log       on to a password-protected Electronic Data Capture (EDC) System located within the       coordinating center website.        Intervention: Enrolled patients will receive all outpatient investigations except monitoring       (which will according to the randomization as per the study protocol) as per the discharging       physician. Based on their allocation, patients will receive either Cardiophone or the MCT       device prior to discharge home. The allocation will be concealed and the treating physician,       patient, outcome assessor and the investigator will be blinded to the arm the patient is       randomized.        Data Collection: Patient demographics, medical history, CSARS predictors, results of physical       examination and investigations, and patient disposition will be collected. The following       device data will be obtained from the central monitoring station: quality of recordings,       device failure (rhythm not captured during death or when symptomatic), false alarms due to       artefacts, times of patient activation of cardiophone device due to symptoms, any rhythm       abnormalities detected during the symptoms, and monitoring reports for patients in both arms.       Patients will complete a questionnaire during the follow-up visit regarding any serious       conditions suffered, their comfort and how secure they felt because of the cardiac       monitoring.        Post-ED Care of Study Patients: All patients enrolled in the study will be linked to a local       cardiology group for any urgent and end of study follow-up as needed. Patients will be       advised to keep a diary of symptoms during the 15-day monitoring period. Patients in the       cardiophone arm will have the option of transmitting the rhythm when symptomatic and       symptom-rhythm correlation will be reported. Patients will be advised to return the devices       and the symptom diary to the local cardiology clinic or the ED research team the next       business day after the 15-day monitoring period. All monitoring reports will be completed by       the central monitoring station within 24-hours and sent to the study cardiologist. If serious       arrhythmias are detected, then the central monitoring station will contact the patient or the       family member and advise them to call 911 for the patient to be transported to the ED. If       other arrhythmias are identified, the central monitoring station will provide an interim       report to the study cardiologist providing care. The study cardiologist will decide the need       for urgent follow-up and time-frame within which such follow-up should occur. For patients in       the control arm with MCT device, the central monitoring station will provide reports for       48-hour holter monitoring on day 3 and another report on day 16 for cardiac monitoring for       days 3 to 15. Patients in both study arms will be clearly advised to seek care for symptoms       as usual. All patients will be monitored for the entire 15-days regardless of early       arrhythmias detected and will have end of study follow-up and further management as deemed       appropriate by the cardiologist responsible for the care of the patient.        Duration of Participation and Withdrawal: Patients will be part of the study actively for       1-year after recruitment. We plan to conduct a 30-day telephone follow-up and 1-year health       administrative data linkage for serious outcomes related to syncope. Patients will be free to       withdraw from the study at any time without providing any reason and without any penalty or       loss of benefits they are entitled and the number of withdrawals will be monitored. However,       as these monitoring devices will serve to allay fear of arrhythmia or death among patients,       the investigators expect very few withdrawals. There will be no restrictions on medications       or procedures during the study period.        Data Analysis: The primary analysis will be by intent-to-treat and will compare the       diagnostic yield (arrhythmia detection or exclusion) at the end of 15-days using data from       15-day monitoring in the intervention arm and the 48-hour holter monitoring. Secondary       analysis will include a per-protocol analysis. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test will be used       for the primary outcome, controlling for the stratification factor (CSARS score). The effect       of the intervention will be expressed as a risk difference with 95% confidence interval.       Secondary analysis will include multivariable logistic regression to control for potential       confounders or imbalances between patients in the study arms. Descriptive statistics for       baseline characteristics, all outcomes, device performance including failure and patient       centered measures (adherence, comfort and safety feeling). Additional analysis will include       comparison of arrhythmias detected that did not require treatment between the groups. There       will no interim analyses for efficacy performed, but the investigators will monitor trial       safety as detailed in the Data Safety Monitoring Board section.        Sample Size: Our sample size is 300 patients per arm (600 total) determined to yield 80%       power to detect an absolute difference of 10% in diagnostic yield between the study arms       using a chi-squared test at the 5% level of significance assuming a control arm event rate of       17% and accounting for 5% attrition. A difference of 10% is feasible based on previous       studies which have reported an 18% increase in diagnostic yield with prolonged monitoring.        Data Safety Monitoring Board: This independent committee will be comprised of one emergency       physician, one cardiologist and a biostatistician from outside the participating sites. This       board will be responsible for safeguarding the interests and safety of trial participants by       reviewing adverse events including deaths every 6 months during the study period.        Anticipated Contributions: Our study will be the first to combine risk-stratification and       innovative technology to decrease morbidity and mortality, and improve healthcare efficiency.       This study will create new knowledge regarding the role of prolonged live monitoring among       high-risk syncope patients and application of device prior to ED discharge. As the monitoring       is live, timely management of potentially life threatening arrhythmias is possible and can be       applied to syncope patients not at risk for ventricular arrhythmia and hospitalized solely       for cardiac monitoring. This will represent a paradigm shift as patients can now be monitored       at home at a very low cost decreasing ED and hospital crowding. These devices will alleviate       fears of occult arrhythmia and death and will improve patient outcomes.
This is a post market, multi-center (sites in US/CAN/EMEA/ANZ), prospective, non-randomized       study.
nan
nan
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the SED can safely and effectively improve       swallowing. Many people with severe swallowing disability (dysphagia) cannot open their upper       esophageal sphincter, which is a circular band of muscle that acts like a valve, allowing       food to enter the esophagus (food pipe) and go down into the stomach. People with extreme       dysphagia may cough and choke on food, liquid, and even their own saliva. These people are       always at risk of food/liquid/saliva accidently entering their lungs. This can cause       pneumonia and, in some cases, death. The SED was developed by the University of California,       Davis, to improve swallowing. The idea for the SED began when 6 people, who had feeding tubes       for 100% of their nutrition because of severe swallowing disability, had a long suture thread       attached to their throat. Patients pulled the two ends of the suture thread forward and were       able to open their upper esophageal sphincter. In fact, their swallowing improved so much       that 3 patients went home with the suture in place so that they could eat by mouth.       Unfortunately, the skin around the suture became red and painful within 2-9 days of use. The       suture was removed, but the idea for the SED was born. Since the suture study, three       different models of the SED have been developed, with each subsequent model better able to       improve swallowing, patient safety and use with other common medical tests. The current SED       model looks like the letter "T" or a office tack used to stick paper on a wall or board. The       SED has a plate and a post. The plate is like the top part of the "T" or smooth part of the       tack. The plate is attached to the cartilage or flexible connective tissue of the throat. The       SED post is like the bottom part of the "T" or pointy part of the tack, but instead of ending       with a point, the end has a small ring. The post permanently sticks out from the throat, like       a skin piercing, after the neck skin heals over the plate. Healing takes about 8 weeks. The       SED is made out of titanium because this metal is extremely strong and commonly used in       medical devices put into the body, such as hip joints or bone plates. A person can eat with       the SED by having food enter their esophagus when the SED post is pulled forward with their       fingers on the ring. Both sheep and human cadaver studies have shown that the SED works       extremely well to widely open the upper esophageal sphincter. The University of California,       Davis, and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have determined that the SED       is ready to be tested in a small human study.
Heart failure (HF) is an abnormality of cardiac structure or function leading to failure of       the heart to deliver oxygen at the rate commensurate with the requirement of the patient or       is able to do so only at the expense of elevated left ventricular filling pressures. European       Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2016 guidelines defined HF as a syndrome in which patients have       typical symptoms (e.g. breathlessness, swelling and fatigue) and signs (elevated jugular       pressure, pulmonary crackles and displaced apex beat) resulting from an abnormality of       cardiac structure or function. Patients with HF experience decreased exercise capacity,       inability to perform activities of daily living, diminished quality of life, increased       frequency of hospitalization and higher rates of mortality. HF is highly prevalent and       affects approximately 26 million people worldwide with an estimated mortality of 50% within 5       years of diagnosis.1, 2 It remains a major threat to the public health system since more than       1 million patients are hospitalized with a primary diagnosis of HF annually, and, in western       countries it is the most common cause of hospitalization in individuals >65 years of age.        Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) using biventricular (BiV) pacing has been developed       to restore synchrony in HF patients with delayed ventricular activation, predominantly of the       left ventricle (LV). Studies have demonstrated that simultaneous or sequential BiV pacing       restores the synchrony of contraction, reduces mitral regurgitation, and improves cardiac       output. Several landmark clinical trials published in the past few years have provided       compelling evidence that CRT can produce significant clinical benefits, including       improvements in patients' HF symptoms, quality of life, hospitalization rates, and       echocardiographic measures which confer a mortality benefit. Majority of patients show a       benefit from CRT treatment however, up to 40% derive no improvement. In the MIRACLE study,       34% of patients did not demonstrate an improvement based on a clinical composite score (CCS)       that combined all-cause mortality, HF hospitalization, New York Heart Association (NYHA)       class and the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Quality of Life Score. Birnie and Tang et       al have summarized nonresponder rates from various clinical studies and the authors suggest       that while most studies quote non-responder rates at 20-30% the true rate may be as high as       40-50%. They indicate that the inconsistencies might be largely due to the lack of standard       definitions or methodologies to measure CRT response.        The precise mechanisms determining response are yet to be fully elucidated. It is generally       believed that success is based on minimizing electrical activation times in the LV with a       fusion between a left ventricular wavefront from a lead placed in the coronary sinus (CS) and       a wavefront from a lead placed in the RV or an intrinsic wavefront.        The effects of different RV pacing sites have been varied in terms of their relationship to       outcomes from CRT pacing. Initial smaller studies showed different outcomes between right       ventricular apex (RVA) and outflow tract (RVOT) lead position, however further studies failed       to demonstrate a benefit. Following this it was demonstrated that lead position initially       believed to be septal were in fact antero-septal and that co-ordinated conduction would not       be expected from these sites. Differing activation patterns have been demonstrated on       Electroanatomic mapping (EAM) between intrinsic left bundle branch block (LBBB       (circumferential)) and RV apical pacing (longitudinal). Another small study showed that RV       lead placement at the site of latest activation during LV pacing improved acute haemodynamic       measurements compared to standard RVA pacing, as did a true mid septal site compared to RVOT       pacing - with the RV septum being the latest activated site during LV pacing when the CS lead       was in the lateral vein.        LV septal activation has been proposed as a possible contributor to a successful response to       CRT implantation. Trans-septal activation time has been shown in an animal model to       correspond to the presence or absence of Heart failure when an LBBB is present, and       successful acute haemodynamic response correlated to minimal epicardial activation time, LV       endocardial pre-excitation and shortest QRS duration. Trans-septal conduction times have also       been theorized to account for why QRS shortening with CRT is less than expected, however the       degree to which this contributes is unknown.        Left ventricular total and septal scar have also been correlated to non-response to CRT. This       would be expected to contribute to a longer trans-septal activation, as well as to local       tissue strain measurement on echocardiography. Patterns of scar and their relationship to       trans-septal activation times have not been documented. In the normal human heart up to three       early endocardial sites have been documented and the location of scar relative to these sites       and its effect is unknown. Earliest LV septal activation in LBBB heart failure patients may       occur in mid septal regions suggesting activation of the LBB or outside of this region       demonstrating direct trans-septal conduction, whether this correlates to CRT response is yet       to be determined. Further evidence exists that there is a delay between electrical and       mechanical activation of different cardiac segments (EMD), and that this is variable in the       normal heart, as well as in the failing heart where it is further exacerbated between septal       and lateral walls of the left ventricle. Reduction in total activation time may increase the       total amount of myocardium recruited at any time point and that this may minimize EMD.        This single arm, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center, clinical investigation of 20       subjects is designed to characterize RV and LV septal activation patterns in CRT patients       with various pacing configurations. The study will also assess the association of CRT       response to septal activation patterns, septal scar and morphology of surface ECG.
Myocarditis is a serious social problem, usually affecting young or middle-aged people.       Making of the diagnosis of myocarditis, due to the varied course of the disease, is a       significant challenge, therefore clinical suspicion of myocarditis is based on symptoms and       abnormalities in additional tests (ECG, echocardiography, magnetic resonance of the heart,       biomarkers), which should be confirmed by cardiac biopsy. Despite the fact that in the       majority of patients myocarditis occurs in a mild and uncomplicated manner, in some patients       the inflammatory process progresses leading to dilated cardiomyopathy, end-stage heart       failure and often to the need for heart transplantation. Myocarditis also promotes the       occurrence of severe arrhythmias and conduction which may lead to sudden cardiac death       (myocarditis is confirmed in autopsy even in 2-42% of cases), the need for percutaneous       ablation of arrhythmia, cardioverter-defibrillator implantation or cardiac stimulator.        In order to better identify the causes and improve the diagnosis and treatment of       myocarditis, new data are needed including biomarkers (including biochemical, genetic,       immunohistochemical biomarkers) responsible for the process of necrosis, fibrosis,       haemodynamic stress of myocardium in the course of myocarditis, as well as studies aimed at       identifying pathogens that cause myocarditis and factors predisposing to the onset of       myocarditis. In addition, there is no systematic information on the type and burden of       arrhythmias and their variability over time. A significant deficiency of research in the       field of the above biomarkers and the severity of arrhythmia in the course of myocarditis       translates into the lack of clear recommendations on the myocarditis management from the       scientific societies and often leads to wrong therapeutic decisions.        The aim of the study is to fill the evidence gap regarding the diagnostic and prognostic       value of biomarkers, as well as the type and burden of arrhythmias in patients with       myocarditis.        This will be a non-interventional, observational study. The study will include 100 adult       patients with confirmed (based on clinical findings, in accordance with applicable       guidelines) first myocarditis episode, who agree to participate in the study.        During the multicenter observational study will be collected basic demographic data, current       diagnosis, current disease history and clinical presentation of symptoms, laboratory tests       results and all other additional tests carried out during or after index hospitalization.       During the index hospitalization peripheral venous blood (10 ml) will be collected to obtain       serum for further diagnostic tests (i.e. biochemical, genetic). The obtained material will be       stored frozen until analysis. The tested biomarkers will include those that have a confirmed       role in the diagnosis of myocardial necrosis, in inflammatory processes and fibrosis of the       myocardium, participate in the pathophysiology of arrhythmia and heart failure development,       i.e. high sensitive troponin, N-terminal-pro Brain Natriuretic Peptide (NT-proBNP),       Galectin-3, (Suppression of Tumorigenicity 2) ST2.        Additionally, in selected cases, when a biopsy of the heart is performed in the course of the       independent diagnostic procedure, the heart muscle biopsies will be analyzed. In the       collected material (both in blood and biopsy samples) immunohistochemistry, virology and       genetic research will be performed for specific antibodies and genetic material of pathogens       causing myocarditis (mainly viruses, i.e. parvovirus B19, coxsackie, adenovirus).        The immunogenetic predisposition, as well as gene profiling of people who have become ill       with myocarditis will also be sought.        In addition, patients will undergo prolonged ECG Holter monitoring for up to 7 days from the       moment of consenting to participate in the study. Registered ECG recordings will be evaluated       after the completed follow-up period. Then, after 3-months form inclusion in the study, a       control visit will be made assessing the clinical condition of patients, clinical       examination, collection of blood samples, standard resting 12-lead ECG, and 7-day ECG-Holter       monitoring. Other study endpoints will be assessed after 1-year observation. The next stage       will be the analysis of clinical history, obtained results of ECG monitoring, biomarkers and       additional tests.
Background:        Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is an established therapy in patients with a left       ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) < 35 %, and an electrocardiogram (ECG) with prolonged       QRS duration (1). The treatment is implemented by implanting a pacemaker with three pacing       leads: One in the right atrium, one in the right ventricle (RV) and one in an epicardial vein       through the coronary sinus, thereby establishing atrial-synchronized biventricular pacing to       coordinate RV and LV contraction.        Despite the convincing effect of CRT on survival, symptoms, and LV function (2,3,4) as much       as 30-40 % of the patients do not benefit clinically from the treatment, so-called       non-responders (5,6). Annually around 600 CRT-systems are implanted in Denmark and about 3000       patients live with a CRT. The risk of complications associated with CRT-treatment is       considerable (7), and a conservative estimate of the expenses for implanting a CRT-device is       DKK 80.000. Consequently, the costs of CRT in non-responders are high, both for the patients       and for the health economy.        Potential correctable reasons for non-response to CRT are non-optimal LV lead positioning and       non-optimal pacemaker programming (5). At the Department of Cardiology, Aarhus University       Hospital, Skejby, the clinical practice is to place the LV lead in the non-apical       postero-lateral region aiming towards a myocardial segment with electrical activation       occurring in the second half of the QRS complex in the surface ECG.        Retrospective studies have documented an improved response rate to CRT when the LV lead is       placed in a myocardial region with late electrical activation and without scar tissue (8,9).       Furthermore, lack of electrical resynchronization after CRT illustrated by unchanged or       prolonged QRS duration is associated with poor clinical outcome (10) and programming the       interventricular (VV) delay to obtain the narrowest QRS-complex has been suggested to       increase CRT response rate (11,12).        A recent randomized controlled trial (ImagingCRT) conducted at our institution demonstrated       that an imaging guided LV lead placement strategy targeting the latest mechanically activated       myocardial segment (assessed by pre-implant echocardiography) and separate from scar tissue       (determined by pre-implant myocardial scintigraphy) improves clinical response rate to CRT       (data not yet published). This method has the potential to become routine clinical practice       for LV lead placement at our institution.        Aim and hypothesis:        We aim to investigate if optimal electrical resynchronization achieved by targeting LV lead       placement to the myocardial region with the latest electrical activation determined by       systematic electrical mapping of all available epicardial veins combined with post-implant VV       electrical optimization for narrowing the paced QRS width causes an excess improvement in       LVEF after CRT.        We hypothesize that this will cause an excess increase in LVEF of 4 %, to an absolute       increase in LVEF of 12 % as compared to an absolute increase in LVEF to 8 % using an imaging       guided CRT-implantation strategy.        Methods:        All patients referred to CRT at Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby will be assessed for       eligibility. Eligibility criteria and outcomes measures elsewhere at clinicaltrial.gov.        Study Course:        After written informed consent the patient will follow the study course as specified below.        The day before implantation of the CRT the following investigations are scheduled:       Echocardiography (to asses LV function and dimensions), cardiac CT-scan (to localize all       available epicardial veins), myocardial scintigraphy (82Rubidium positron emission tomography       (Rb-PET)), to determine the extent and distribution of scar tissue and LVEF (13,14)), blood       samples and clinical evaluation.        The patients are randomized to EITHER imgaging guided placement of the LV lead targeting the       myocardial region with the latest mechanical activation and VV-interval settings programmed       with simultaneous biventricular pacing (routine CRT-strategy arm) OR LV lead placement guided       by procedural electrical mapping of all available cardiac veins targeting the myocardial       region with the latest electrical activation combined with VV electrical optimization the day       after implantation to achieve the narrowest paced QRS width (intervention arm).        The day after the implantation all patients undergo a high-pitch cardiac CT to verify LV lead       position (15), pacemaker test, programming of VV-intervals and echocardiographic       atrioventricular (AV) optimization.        One month after the implantation all patients have their pacemaker tested by a research nurse       according to standard clinical practice.        Six months after CRT implantation the following investigations are repeated:       Echocardiography, clinical evaluation, pacemaker test and blood samples. Rb-PET is also       repeated to determine potential changes in myocardial perfusion and LVEF. Thereafter the       patient will attend standard controls of the pacemaker every six month according to standard       procedures.        Power Calculations and statistics:        We hypothesize that a CRT-strategy targeting optimal electrical resynchronization will result       in an excess increase of 4 % in LVEF compared with the routine CRT-strategy, where an 8 %       increase is expected. To identify this absolute increase in LVEF and to achieve a statistical       power of 80 %, the study will need a sample size of 98 patients, given a standard deviation       (SD) of 7 % in both groups, and a two-sided alpha value of 0.05. Furthermore, to achieve a       statistical power of > 80 % with a margen of noninferiority of 20 % for the secondary       endpoint of clinical non-response to CRT (assuming a 75 % clinical response rate in the       control group) we will need a sample size of 116 patients (given a two-sided alpha value of       0.05 %). Taking into consideration an expected loss of follow-up in approximately 5 % of the       patients, we will include 122 patients.        All analyses will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat principle. Differences       between groups will be tested using Students t-test, when normality is demonstrated;       otherwise a non-parametric test (Mann-Whitney) is used. Categorical variables will be       analyzed by χ2 test. A two-sided P- value of <0.05 is considered significant.        Research Plan:        The Department of Cardiology, Aarhus University Hospital, have the capacity and equipment to       conduct this trial. The group of investigators contributes with a deep and long-lasting       experience in CRT-treatment and 150 de-novo CRT-devices are annually implanted at our       institution. We plan to enroll the patients during a two and a half-year period. This study       is planned to start in February 2015 as a PhD program for Charlotte Stephansen, MD. Charlotte       Stephansen will be the prime investigator in charge of including the patients and she will       perform all clinical evaluations and image acquisitions during the admission for CRT       implantation and at the six month follow-up. She will also be in charge of analyzing data       after study completion.        The results will be published in peer-reviewed international journals, and are expected to       result in at least three papers. None of the investigators have any conflicts of interest to       declare.        The study will be conducted according to the principles of the Helsinki Declaration II. The       study will be approved by The Central Denmark Region Committees on Health Research Ethics,       reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, and registered on ClinicalTrials.gov.        Perspective:        No prospective randomized trials have previously investigated the effect of a CRT       treatment-strategy targeting optimal electrical resynchronization achieved by guiding LV lead       placement to the myocardial region with the latest electrical activation combined with       post-implant VV electrical optimization for narrowing the paced QRS width.        It is expected that this method improves the response to CRT. The human and economic costs of       CRT in non-responders are therefore expected to be reduced. If an excess increase in LVEF is       achieved in this study, it will be possible to prevent and relieve invalidating symptoms and       reduce mortality in selected heart failue patients in the future. The utility and potential       benefits of participating in this study are expected to equalize the risks of exposure to       ionizing radiation, possible side effects and inconvenience to the patient.        References:        Please refer to the reference chapter
All subjects will be followed until 12 months follow-up post implant.        At each follow-up visits (3, 6 and 12 months), electrical performances will be measured and       safety will be monitored during the whole study duration.
See study protocol
nan
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) and hypertension are both very common diseases in the       general population.Investigators have also observed previously hypertensive patients with CSM       become normotensive following decompressive cervical surgery and no longer need       antihypertensive medications. Both observations are difficult to explain according to current       theories of the two diseases.
nan
nan
nan
Atrial tachyarrhythmias (ATA) and heart failure (HF), which are well-recognized causes of       morbidity and mortality, are growing and concerning issues in our patient population. In       patients implanted with a dual-chamber implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD),       progression of paroxysmal to persistent or permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) has been       documented. Because of the untoward consequences of AF, such as development/worsening of HF       or thromboembolic events (stroke and myocardial infarction [MI]), prevention of permanent AF       has the potential to improve quality of life, reduce hospitalizations, and decrease the       complications associated with AF.        Recent advancements with implantable cardiac device technology include extensive diagnostic       and therapeutic algorithms for prevention as well as termination of ATA. Preventive atrial       pacing (PAP) and a novel atrial antitachycardia pacing algorithm (Reactive ATP™) in       conjunction with managed ventricular pacing (MVP) recently has been shown to reduce       progression to permanent AF in pacemaker patients with intact atriovenous (AV) conduction and       a history of ATA. Results of that study suggested that Reactive ATP™ specifically was       responsible for this effect. Whether the use of Reactive ATP™ for reducing AF burden extends       to patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), who typically have       structural heart disease and HF, is unknown.        The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of atrial antitachycardia pacing       (Reactive ATP) in patients implanted with either a dual-chamber or cardiac resynchronization       therapy (CRT) ICD who have a history of ATA.
The purpose of the research is to establish the metrics (operational definitions) necessary       to characterize a reference Cardiac Device implant procedure, to seek consensus from       experienced device implanters on the appropriateness of the steps as well as errors       identified, and to determine if such validated performance metrics are a valid assessment       tool with the ability to discriminate between the performances of experienced and novice       implanters.        These validated metrics will potentially serve as an educational and training tool to improve       and quality assure Cardiac device implant training.        The steps involved in characterising a reference procedure are as follows:          1. Define the implant procedure in quantifiable steps (already performed)          2. Seek consensus and agreement by an independent panel on the steps (already done).          3. Video record routinely performed device implants by experienced and novice physicians.          4. Reviewing and scoring the video recorded procedures to verify that the metrics            distinguish between a novice and an expert cardiac device performance.
Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has evolved as an alternative to surgical       aortic valve replacement (SAVR) with now more than 50,000 implantations in patients with       symptomatic severe aortic stenosis, who were considered to be at very high or prohibitive       operative risk. Before deployment of transcatheter heart valves (THV), current medical       practice requires right-ventricular rapid burst pacing (>180 bpm) with induction of a       functional cardiac arrest for up to 30 seconds for balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV). This       step is thought to be necessary to predilate the native aortic valve and to facilitate an       accurate positioning of the THV. However, BAV has been shown to have numerous detrimental       effects: i) the functional cardiac arrest induced by rapid pacing for BAV leads to transient       coronary, cerebral, and renal ischemia. ii) In patients with impaired left ventricular       ejection fraction, prolonged cardiac depression after rapid pacing is observed and may result       in hemodynamic failure and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which are both       associated with a high peri-procedural mortality. iii) BAV has been identified as a major       source of embolization of thrombotic and valvular material and increases the risk for       coronary obstruction with subsequent myocardial infarction and stroke. iv) the local trauma       in the left-ventricular outflow tract caused by BAV contributes to conduction disturbances       with the need for permanent pacemaker implantation after TAVI.        A non-randomized pilot study by Grube et al. (JACC Interventions 2011) has recently shown       that TAVI without BAV is feasible and safe, since self-expanding THV are able to "dilate" the       stenosed aortic valve through the radial forces of the self-expanding nitinol frame, in which       the prosthesis is mounted. According to the mentioned study, omitting BAV allows the delivery       of the THV in a controlled fashion without hemodynamic compromise of the patient.        Patients with LVEF≤35% will be randomized (like the flip of a coin) to TAVI without BAV       (experimental group) or TAVI with BAV for predilation (control group).
nan
nan
nan
nan
The study will evaluate the benefit of Deep Brain Stimulation for subjects with severe       disability due to Traumatic Brain Injury. DBS has been proven safe and efficacious for       remediation of multiple neurological conditions. It is the hope of the study team that the       protocol will provide further insight into the potential of DBS to improve the quality of       life and functioning of persons with severe disability due to TBI and at the same time can       provide new clinical insights that will improve treatment for the entire spectrum of injury       severity.
The clinical problem of neurogenic detrusor overactivity (bladder hyper-reflexia) is among       the most serious problems encountered by Veterans with neurologic injuries such as spinal       cord injury (SCI). The majority of persons with SCI suffer from neurogenic bladder (73%) and       only 17% of persons with traumatic SCI manage their bladders with voluntary micturition. The       investigators' long-term goal is to develop and clinically implement a "bladder pacemaker"       able to restore bladder continence for Veterans with spinal cord injury (SCI). This proposal       will 1) determine the long-term effectiveness of genital nerve stimulation (GNS) to       chronically ( 1 year) reduce urinary incontinence and improve quality of life for Veterans       with SCI, and 2) develop and produce an effective take home GNS system that can be used by       more Veterans, given to Veterans at the end of the study and used in future multi-VA studies.        The rationale for studying chronic GNS is based on the demonstration in humans with SCI that       abnormal hyper-reflexive bladder contractions can be acutely inhibited and bladder capacity       acutely increased using GNS. The peripheral and easily accessible location of the dorsal       genital nerve (DGN) allows surface stimulation and therefore provides the potential for a       less complicated surgical intervention than is currently available, increasing the number of       individuals who could benefit from bladder control neural prostheses. While GNS has been       demonstrated to be effective acutely by multiple groups, relatively few groups have attempted       to test this approach for more than a day.
A study that was done before in J Anaesth by Borazan H et al revealed that postoperative pain       score in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy who received melatonin one hour before       surgery as a premedication was significantly lower than the control group with a significant       P-value( less than 0.05).        The entropy is indicated for adult and pediatric patients older than 2 years intraoperatively       for monitoring the electric state of the brain. In adult patients, state entropy and response       entropy can be used as an aid in monitoring the effects of certain anaesthetic agents which       will help the user to titrate the anaesthetic agent according to the individual needs of each       patient.        Furthermore, the use of entropy parameters may be associated with a reduction of anaesthetic       use and faster emergence of anaesthesia. The entropy measurement is to be used as an adjunct       to other physiological parameters.        To the best of our knowledge, there is no study that examined the effect of melatonin on       inhaled isoflurane requirements intraoperatively. So, in this study, the effect of melatonin       will be assessed on intraoperative inhaled isoflurane requirements in patients undergoing       open nephrectomy under general anaesthesia by using entropy
nan
After being informed about the study and potential risks, all eligible patients giving       written consent will be included. The study is a clinical single-center interventional study.       The patients (n = 25) need to have an expected high demand for ventricular pacing and no       established class I indication for cardiac resynchronization therapy. They will receive a       pacemaker implant with a traditional right ventricular pacing lead and an additional His       pacing lead in a basal high septal position at the level of the proximal electrical       conduction system (His). An atrial lead is implanted if dual chamber pacing is needed. All       leads are connected to a biventricular pacemaker with the His lead in the LV port.       Postoperatively, the baseline examinations will include: transthoracic echocardiography,       12-lead ECG with a 3D photography of the chest wall to document ECG electrode location, and a       contrast-enhanced cardiac CT scan. The echocardiography and ECG will be performed during       traditional right ventricular pacing only and His pacing only. His pacing will be used as the       permanent programming of choice if feasible during follow up. The CT scan is used for       documenting the final positions of the pacing leads and to create a patient-specific 3D model       of the cardiac electrical activation using a software which enables merging of a CT scan and       ECG and a CT chest photography. During follow up (1-3 and 12 months), transthoracic       echocardiography, 12-lead ECG and 3D chest photography are repeated for assessment of       mechanical and electrical function during pacing. The performance of all implanted pacing       lead will be evaluated at each follow up visit.
Eligible patients will be equally randomized (1:1) to the Conventional/control arm (bridging       anti-coagulation)or to the Experimental arm (continued coumadin). In the Conventional arm       there are 2 options. Patients with greater than 5 days pre-implant will discontinue oral       anti-coagulant (coumadin) 5 days before the procedure,and start full therapeutic doses of       subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)3 days before the procedure. Patients with       less than 5 days to implant can be given Vitamin K at the investigator's discretion and start       full therapeutic doses of either subcutaneous LMWH or IV unfractionated Heparin (choice is at       investigator discretion) when the INR is below the therapeutic range for the patient (usually       greater than or equal to 2; 2.5 for some valve patients) and surgery to proceed when INR is       less than 1.6. Oral anti-coagulant (coumadin) will resume on the evening of the procedure.       Full dose LMWH injections or full dose IV heparin will be started 24 hours after surgery.        In the Experimental arm patients will continue on their oral anti-coagulant (coumadin). The       INR on the day of surgery will be < 3.0.        ASA will be continued in all patients. Plavix will be continued in patients with drug-eluting       stents.        Patients will be monitored for the development of any hematoma or bleeding event during       admission. There will be a unblinded team responsible for device implant and follow-up and a       blinded team responsible to monitor any bleeding events or hematoma and determine if it meets       the primary endpoint criteria for the study. The blinded team will have no knowledge of the       treatment arm and will be involved only if the patient develops a hematoma or bleeding event.       All hematomas and bleeding events will be followed until resolution.
The implantation of cardiac devices has been one of the common standard procedures in the       cardiac clinical practice.        Pacemakers are implanted for patients with symptomatic bradyarrhythmias. Implantable       cardioverter-defibrillators are implanted in order to avoid sudden cardiac death (SCD) in       high risk patients such as after myocardial infarction and reduced ejection fraction.        Cardiac resynchronization therapy was introduced to improve the prognosis in patients with       reduced EF and left bundle branch block. This therapy demonstrated the efficacy in severe       heart failure patients.        Recently a new implantable device has been developed also to improve the prognosis of       patients with severe heart failure refractory to the maximal therapies at present. This       barostimulator activates the baro-reflex and results in higher parasympathetic activity and       better outcome in those patients, in whom the sympathetic function is overactivated.        In patients with cryptogenic stroke or syncope, the implantable loop recorder enables us to       monitor the cardiac rhythm continuously for 3 years. With this device, the occult arrhythmias       can be revealed and lead patients to the adequate therapy.        Above mentioned device therapies have been developed since 1960s, and the technologies in       this field are still progressively developing. To catch up these advancements, the quality       management including the efficacy, safety aspects and the prognosis of the patients should be       carefully monitored.        The aim of the present study is, therefore, to demonstrate the efficacy and the safety of       standard device implantation procedures. The patient specific and procedural factors are       evaluated to test if those factors predict the prognosis of the patients. These       identifications will eventually result in the improvement of future patients' care.        The data of patients who underwent device implantation since 2011 and those who undergo       device implantation till 2019 will be collected, including the basic demographic data,       comorbidities, results of laboratory and functional tests. In the latter patients, the       peri-procedural data and post-procedural data are also prospectively collected.        The present study is essentially an observational study. The inclusion in this study does not       affect the decision of device implantation itself. The post-procedural therapies, such as       medications and device therapies are not due to this registry affected.        As a sub-project in this registry, biomarkers and thyroid hormone are evaluated to       investigate the predictable value of those indices.
nan
This study is intended to be included in Fuwai hospital for admission to the atrioventricular       block, with permanent pacemaker implant indications recommended by current guidelines.       Patients were assessed for preoperative electrocardiogram, quality of life scores, cardiac       function, and left and right ventricular synchrony. Patients were followed up by regular       outpatients. The electrocardiogram, quality of life score, echocardiographic function, left       and right ventricular synchrony, pacing parameters and pacing ratio were evaluated       immediately after surgery, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after surgery. At the same time,       the left bundle branch area pacing success rate, complications during intraoperative and       postoperative follow-up were recorded.
Primary Endpoint        The primary endpoint is the occurrence of either death or first HF hospitalization. HF       hospitalizations must satisfy both of the following criteria:          1. Admission to hospital for >24 hours with at least one of the following HF worsening            symptoms:               -  Increased CHF class               -  Orthopnea               -  Paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea               -  Edema               -  Dyspnea on exertion, or               -  Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms attributable to HF               -  Placement on the Status I heart transplant list             AND          2. One or more of the following intensive treatment(s) for HF within 24 hours of admission:               -  Intravenous (IV) diuresis               -  IV inotropic medications prescribed during the hospitalization, or               -  Increasing frequency of dialysis for patients with chronic renal failure        2.3 Secondary Endpoints        Secondary endpoints include:          -  Cause of death          -  Change in NYHA functional class          -  Number of HF related hospitalizations          -  Performance on a standard 6-minute hall walk test          -  Quality of Life as measured by the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHFQ)            questionnaire          -  Patient global clinical assessment          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measured by echocardiography          -  LV volume measured by echocardiography          -  LV lead placement position          -  QRS duration at baseline and with CRT          -  Number of AT/AF, VT/VF episodes          -  Frequency of appropriate/inappropriate ICD therapy          -  % Atrial and Ventricular Pacing          -  Antiarrhythmic drug utilization          -  Study related complications        2.3.1 Response to CRT          1. A positive response to CRT is defined by the following: Improvement in NYHA functional            class by at least one grade          2. Improvement in echocardiographic LVEF & left ventricular end diastolic index (LVEDI)          3. Improvement in patient global clinical assessment          4. Improvement in 6-minute hall walk by 10%
nan
Study Aims The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of right ventricular pacing on       CO at rest and exercise, and on endothelial function and B-type natriuretic peptide, BNP, in       patients with heart failure.        Methods: Thirty patients with dual chamber pacemakers for sinus node disease will be       recruited: 15 controls with normal LV function and 15 with stable impaired LV function       (ejection fraction <40%). The pacemaker will be programmed to pace to back-up pacing at 55bpm       in the atrial only (AAI, no right VP) for one week (baseline); and than programmed to       overdrive pacing at 70-80bpm, randomised to either to dual chamber, DDD (sequential atrial       and ventricular pacing) with a short AV delay (to ensure maximal right VP) or AAI (no RV       pacing), for 1 week. There will be a crossover after a 1 week washout at backup AAI pacing at       55 bpm. Resting and exercise CO will be measured at the end of each pacing mode intervention       using the Inocor system (a validated non invasive method of CO measurement, using inhaled       inert gas equilibriums). Endothelial function will be measured non-invasively at the same       time points, as will plasma BNP, a measure of LV strain. Patients with unstable heart failure       or angina will be excluded.        Study Endpoints: Rest and exercise CO; and endothelial function and BNP with and without RV       pacing, in patients with preserved and impaired LV function.
-  Research participants will undergo resting 12-lead ECG, 24-hour ambulatory ECG, baseline            echocardiography, exercise echocardiography, cardiac MRI scan.          -  Blood samples will be collected in all participants from both centers for immediate            laboratory testing.          -  Blood and urine samples will be collected in all participants and used for metabolomic,            proteomic and lipidomic profiling and for targeted metabolite and enzyme analysis.          -  Blood samples will be collected in all participants for future gene code analysis (DNA /            RNA).
We included patients that suffered from an acute coronary syndrome for which a percutaneous       coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass graft was performed.        All patients had access to a computer with internet connection.        Patients that (i) were more than 80 years old, (ii) had an implantable cardioverter       defibrillator or pacemaker, (iii) suffered from severe arrhythmias, or (iv) had persistent       exertional ischaemia after revascularization therapy, were not invited to participate in this       study. Patients with severe heart failure (NYHA class III and IV), or neurological or       orthopaedic disability limiting their capability to exercise, were also excluded.        The study was a prospective randomized controlled trial, including an 18-week intervention.       All patients were included after week six of their conventional phase II cardiac       rehabilitation (CR). During phase II of conventional CR, all patients (those in the       intervention and control group) were educated about the core components of CR including       healthy nutrition, risk factor management (lipids, hypertension, weight, diabetes, and       smoking), psychosocial management and physical activity counseling.        During the first six weeks of the intervention, patients in the intervention group continued       exercising in the hospital's rehabilitation centre using an outpatient service, in       combination with an exercise training program with telemonitoring support. Patients in the       control group continued exercising in the hospital's rehabilitation centre using an       out-patient service, without participating in the exercise training program with       telemonitoring support. Starting from the seventh week in the study period, patients in the       intervention group finished their phase II CR in the hospital's rehabilitation centre but       continued their exercise training program with telemonitoring support; patients in the       control group finished their phase II CR in the hospital's rehabilitation centre.        All patients underwent a maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) and a clinical       examination (with determination of waist circumference, blood pressure, body mass index)       after randomization, and also during the sixth and 18th week of the Telerehab II study       period. A fasting blood sampling was taken from all patients during the first and 18th week       of the Telerehab II study period.        The hypothesis was that telemonitoring of physical activity will increase physical activity,       and improve cardiovascular disease risk factors, in CAD patients attending phase 2-3 cardiac       rehabilitation.
The Micra Registry is a global, prospective, observational, multi-site registry. Patients       enrolled in the Micra Registry will be prospectively followed for a minimum of 9 years       post-implant or until registry closure, patient death, patient exit from the registry (i.e.,       withdrawal of consent), or unless patient is participating in an acute performance sub-study       of the Micra Registry*.        Enrolled patients will have scheduled follow-up visits at least annually or as prompted by       reportable adverse events; however, all Micra system follow-up patient visits are to be       reported. Therefore, if more frequent scheduled visits occur per a provider's standard care       practice, those visits are reported. The total estimated registry duration is 11 years.        *Patients contributing to an acute performance sub-study of the Micra Registry do not       contribute to the FDA-regulated Post-Approval Study which includes a long-term (minimum       9-year) patient follow-up period.
Echocardiography is currently the most important and most widely used tool in cardiology       besides electrocardiography (ECG). It is reliable for assessing all stages of cardiovascular       disease, and it is commonly used to detect heart (cardiac) wall motion dysfunction during and       after open-heart surgery.        During open-heart surgery, transesophageal echocardiography (when the echocardiography sensor       is introduced into the esophagus) is used to monitor cardiac wall motion at various time       points during surgery. After surgery, the measurements are made at various time points by       transthoracic echocardiography (when the echocardiography sensor is placed on the chest       wall).        Use of the CS1 system enables continuous, direct measurements of cardiac wall motion. This is       achieved through use of temporary pacemaker wires (also called temporary myocardial       electrodes or TMEs) incorporating a motion detector called an accelerometer. Use of TMEs       during and after open-heart surgery is part of the normal clinical routine. Continuous       monitoring of cardiac wall motion during the surgery and the post-surgical recovery period       can, for example, quickly highlight the need for medical intervention with cardiac drugs and       allow very early detection of potentially serious complications such as ischemia (heart       muscle is not receiving enough oxygen) and myocardial dysfunction (cardiac wall motion       appears abnormal).        The key feature of the CS1 system is that the cardiac wall motion activity registered by the       novel TMEs incorporating the accelerometer are displayed visually on a standard medical       monitor and synchronized with the patient's ECG data. These data can easily be viewed by       medical staff to check if the patient's condition is satisfactory or whether medical       intervention is needed.        In the study, the CS1 system will be used in addition to the standard monitoring procedures       that include ECG, blood pressures and intermittent echocardiography. Cardiac wall motion       activity registered by the CS1 system and echocardiography at specific time points during and       after surgery will be analyzed to see how well they compare.
nan
A prospective, single center, non-randomized pilot study in which patients will undergo an       electrophysiology (EP) study during the TAVI procedure.        All patients eligible for inclusion will undergo an electrophysiology (EP) study during the       TAVI procedure. For the purpose of EP measurements, a His-catheter will be placed at the       beginning of the procedure and remain in the same location until the end of the procedure.        Continuous HV measurements will be collected, together with a continuous surface ECG, during       the entire TAVI procedure. The different steps in TAVI procedure will be registered.        During the study, patients will undergo regular electrocardiographic examinations at the       outpatient clinic (before implantation, after implantation, before discharge and after 6       weeks, 6 and 12 months post-implantation). These are part of the standard healthcare after       the TAVI procedure.        The research protocol has been approved by the ethical committee (METC).
To evaluate the effectiveness of Burst DR stimulation as a treatment for persistent abdominal       refractory visceral pain secondary to chronic pancreatitis. Abdominal pain is a main symptom       in patients with chronic pancreatitis. Patients have a background constant pain with acute       episodes needing admissions. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a recognised treatment for       neuropathic pain. This involves placing an electric wire in the spine and the use of       electricity to manage the pain. This is a pacemaker for controlling pain. Burst DR       stimulation delivers a wave form which mimics the way nerves conduct electrical signals,       there are short bursts or spikes of stimulation followed by short periods of rest. The key       aims and objectives of this study are to evaluate the efficacy of Burst DR SCS as a treatment       for persistent pain secondary to chronic pancreatitis
Rationale: Frequency of transcatheter and other structural heart procedures increased       dramatically from 2012 to 2014 and is trending even higher for 2015. Procedures increased       from 15 in 2012 to 50 cases in 2013 (233% increase) and to 70 cases in 2014 (40% increase       from 2013 to 2014.) -- PT and OT identified a gap in consults and need for specific education       targeted for a new surgery population (tAVR) without sternotomy. Often consults were placed       on day of discharge to rehab facility or not at all. -- Structural Heart division of CV       institute identified increased length of stay (LOS) and decreased activity of their patients       in the hospital. -- No literature on this subject found via Henry Ford Hospital Sladen       Library PubMed literature review        Aim: • Create a standardized pathway for new transcatheter aortic valve replacement patients       in the Structural Heart Division (SHD)          -  Improve patient outcomes including increasing the percentage of patients returning to            home rather than a rehab facility destination at discharge          -  Decrease length of stay        Implementation:          -  Plan: PT and OT identified a gap in consults and need for specific education targeted at            a new surgeries population (tAVR); Structural Heart division of CV institute identified            an increase LOS and decreased activity of their patients in the hospital. In October            2014 planning began to introduce a SHD tAVR pathway that would include post procedure            day number 0 nursing requirements and training, post procedure day number 1-3 PT and OT            assessment and interventions.          -  Do: Implemented pathway in November 2014.          -  Check: Order set revision; Patient handouts ; Cardiac Rehab; Weekend criteria; staff            training          -  Act: February 2015, order sets in place, patient handouts finalized and full pathway            finalized for post op tAVR patients.          -  Continued checks identified additional SHD procedures and team determined that Mitral            Clips and LARIATs were not criteria for tAVR pathway but would receive routine PT and OT            consults.        Intervention: • Added PT and OT to Structural Heart Order Set.          -  PT and OT assessments completed on post procedure day number day 1.          -  PT and OT follow up treatments post procedure day number 2, 3 and beyond as appropriate.          -  Patient education handouts individualized for patient population          -  Pre-op education handouts individualized for patient population        Outcome measures: Hospital Length of stay, discharge disposition. Data Analysis: Chi-square       tests are used to compare proportions between groups, while Wilcoxon two-sample tests are       used to compare distributions of continuous variables between groups. This nonparametric test       was chosen due to non-Gaussian distribution of the continuous outcomes within groups.       Statistical significance was set at p<0.05. All analyses were performed using SAS 9.4 (SAS       Institute Inc, Cary, North Carolina, USA).
Once the eligibility for the study is determined and patient has consented for participation,       all study participants will undergo a baseline evaluation (within 6 weeks prior to 2 weeks       after CRT device implant/upgrade). Echocardiogram, quality-of-life questionnaire, 6-minute       hall walk, blood test, vital signs, ECGs, device interrogation and baseline demographic and       medical history including chart review will be obtained. After CRT device implant/upgrade,       participants will undergo physiologic evaluations at various (up to 10 or more) RV-LV offset       settings including ECGs and echocardiography. A randomized assignment using a random       allocation table in REDCap will be used to program patients to (A) intervention or (B)       control RV-LV offset setting. Patients will return for study follow-up between 3-12 months.       Follow-up evaluations will include echocardiography, quality-of-life questionnaire, 6-minute       hall walk test, blood test, vital signs, ECGs, device interrogation, and follow-up medical       history including chart review. The patients will continue to be in extended follow-up       through review of their medical charts till the end of the study (12 months from date of CRT       implant/upgrade of the the last study participant).        Treatment and control arms: All study patients will receive standard of care clinically       indicated medical and device therapy per their treating physicians. After implant of a       clinically indicated CRT device or upgrade of a preexisting pacemaker or defibrillator device       to CRT system, participants will be randomized 1:1 to treatment arms (A) active intervention       of programming individualized RV-LV pacing offset to optimize ECG or to (B) active control of       nominally programming CRT device without RV-LV offset. Of note, both intervention and control       treatment are active FDA-approved CRT therapies and no investigational device or programming       will be used, and no clinically indicated treatment will be withheld from any patient. At any       time, if in the judgment of the patient's treating physicians or the research team, any       treatment including CRT programming different from the study protocol is necessitated for       clinical reasons, the appropriate clinically indicated changes will be made. At the end of       the study, if the participant is clinically doing well and the programmed CRT settings are       deemed clinically appropriate they will be retained, else the CRT programming may be changed       as per standard of care.        Enrolled participants who have a failed or unsatisfactory LV lead implant will not be       randomized.
This is a single-blind randomized crossover study. After providing written informed consent,       eligible patients will undergo an initial stimulation procedure with a temporary lead (Step 1       Wire Stimulation). The simulation is performed to determine efficacy of the device before a       permanent implant is placed. This stimulation takes place over a period of 7-14 days (+/-3       days). Because this procedure is done in the OR, this window of time allows for optimization       of the device and coordination of operating room schedules. This is the time period that has       been used in prior trials. Typically bowel improvement has been seen relatively quickly, so       the range should not affect our assessment of BFI.        After the Wire Implantation has occurred, patients will be evaluated over the next 7-14 days       (+/- 3 days) and will complete the BFI questionnaire. If BFI improvement is < than or = to 4       points the wire will be removed in the operating room, the patient will be offered standard       of care, and the patient will no longer be part of the study. Based on our prior data, we       would like to give as many patients as possible the opportunity for enrollment and as a       result we have chosen a 4 point BFI change as minimum criteria for response. Our group has       seen that a change in the BFI around 5-6 is clinically significant, but we will lower this       threshold slightly. If a patient's BFI improves by ≥ 4 points, the patient will proceed to       the randomized phase (Step 2-Implantation) of the study.        Patients who proceed to Step 2- Implantation, they will return to the operating room for the       implantation of the permanent device. While in the operating room they will be randomly       assigned to either having the device stimulation on (Group A) or device stimulation off       (Group B) for first 4 weeks (+/-3 days). Patients will return to clinic 2 weeks later to       cross over to the other arm (Step 3-Crossover) and the device stimulation will be set to on       or off. Patients will come back to clinic within 7 days (+/- 7 days) after Crossover for       device check and optimization.
nan
The investigators propose to prospectively recruit 556 patients with ICD or CRT-D       implantation in 10 sites in Korea.          -  Eligible patients should be enrolled in remote monitoring system 0 to 45 days after            successful device implantation and then randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the RM or            conventional follow-up group.          -  In the RM follow-up arm, the patients are not mandated to visit the clinic unless there            is unscheduled call due to adverse event notification.          -  In the conventional follow-up arm, the patients should be seen at the clinic according            to each center's custom but no longer than 1 year between each visit. Follow-up should            be continued accordingly until two-years of device implant.
Cardiac pacing which involved stimulating the heart electrically with electrical wires that       go into the heart is routine practice in the diagnosis and treatment of heart rhythm       problems. Clinically this involved the fields of cardiac pacing and electrophysiology.       Patients who are at risk of sudden death because of serious heart rhythms that are a result       of malfunction of the electrical system of the pumping chambers of the heart (ventricles) are       generally implanted with specialised pacemakers that can defibrillate (shock) the heart if a       nasty life threatening rhythm should result. Shocks are painful and in order to try and treat       these rhythms without shocks, anti tachycardia pacing is performed (this is routine part of       the device), which aims to interrupt the rhythm by stimulating the heart electrically. This       does not always work and can destabilise the rhythm leading to a shock. REVRAMP is a novel       modification of anti tachycardia pacing which involved stimulating the heart through the       defibrillator wires in a different way. It appears to work better and seems less likely to       destabilise the heart rhythm, hence can reduce painful shocks.
nan
nan
This study is a randomized controlled trial investigating the effect of BIS-guided       decongestive treatment on clinical outcomes in overhydrated patients scheduled for and       receiving TAVR.        Centers participating in this trial are: Medical University of Vienna, Kepler University       Hospital Linz        Consecutive adult patients with severe degenerative AS scheduled for TAVR will be       prospectively enrolled at university-affiliated tertiary centers in Austria. Eligibility and       decision for TAVR will be determined by a multidisciplinary Heart Team. All patients who are       willing to participate will undergo assessment of volume status using BIS prior to       intervention. Overhydrated subjects, defined as a relative fluid overload ≥7% (Rel. FO =       fluid overload/extracellular water × 100%) and/or absolute fluid overload ≥1L as assessed by       BIS, will then be randomly assigned to undergo BIS-guided pre- and postprocedural       decongestion treatment vs. decongestion treatment based on mere clinical judgement of volume       status in a 1:1 fashion. In order to avoid detection bias, FO patients in the non-BIS group       as well as their treating physicians shall be blinded for BIS-results. Physicians and study       participants will only be informed about the targeted dry body weight, if randomized to the       BIS-guided decongestion group. Decongestion will be performed using standard medication (e.g.       loop diuretics) and applied orally or intravenously, as appropriate. After TAVR, patients       with FO will be followed before discharge from the hospital, after 3, 6 and 12 months.        Methods:        Patients will undergo standardized evaluation of their fluid status using a portable       whole-body BIS device, the Body Composition Monitor (BCM, Fresenius Medical Care, Bad       Homburg, Germany). Patients will be placed in supine position before the evaluation of their       fluid status. Electrodes will be attached to the nondominant hand and the ipsilateral foot.       Measurements will be conducted according to the manufacturer's manual. For each patient, only       one bioelectrical impedance analysis will be performed, as this method has an adequate       reproducibility. Fluid overload assessed by BCM is expressed as an absolute value in liters       or as a relative value in %, calculated as the ratio between fluid overload (FO) and the       content of extracellular water (ECW) and multiplied by 100 (Rel. FO = FO/ECW × 100%).        Prespecified study visits:        V0 (14+-13 days prior to TAVR): BIS measurement, pitting edema quantification, demographic       factors, symptom assessment, cardiovascular risk factors, ECG, laboratory analysis (e.g.       NT-pro BNP, hs-TnT), frailty assessment, KCCQ questionnaire, transthoracic echocardiography;       V1 (90+-7 days post TAVR): BIS measurement, pitting edema quantification, demographic       factors, symptom assessment, ECG, laboratory analysis (e.g. NT-pro BNP, hs-TnT), KCCQ       questionnaire, transthoracic echocardiography; TV2 (telephone visit, 180+-7 days post TAVR):       demographic factors, symptom assessment; V3 (360+-7 days post TAVR, =end of treatment): BIS       measurement, pitting edema quantification, demographic factors, symptom assessment, ECG,       laboratory analysis (e.g. NT-pro BNP, hs-TnT), KCCQ questionnaire, transthoracic       echocardiography;        Outcome:        Cardiac outcomes (see below) will be assessed at 3 months (=prespecified interim analysis),       and 12 months follwing TAVR.
To find out how accurate V-CoS test is the investigator will study patients with confirmed       Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy currently thought to be high risk. They will be tested by V-CoS       and have their conventional risk score worked out. Patients will be followed up to 5 years to       check if they have had a dangerously fast heartbeat or problems with their defibrillator.        Patients will be recruited primarily from three specialist Inherited Cardiac Diseases clinics       in London, but will include other centres as well.        Participants will be interviewed in clinic by our team to explain the study, answer questions       and to get permission for the test. Participants can leave the study at any time - it will       not affect the way the investigator treat them as patients.        Participants will spend a half day at the Cardiac Investigations unit. This day will consist       of, in this order:          1. Any remaining discussion of the study, the tests and the consent needed with the            participant.          2. Putting the sensor vest on which will be done by one of the research staff. It looks            like a waistcoat with electrical connections and is secured to the patient's skin with            conductive jelly underneath to help the recordings.          3. A 3D 'CT' scan of the chest is done to show how the sensor vest lines up with the heart.            The scan has a low radiation dose, equivalent to 6 months of natural background            radiation.          4. Then the participant will run on the treadmill whilst the vest is used to take            recordings. The lowest V-CoS test score will be recorded from each participant and used            to predict their risk.          5. Participants will have the V-CoS test repeated whilst doing the Valsalva maneuver. This            is when participant attempt to blow out as much air as possible from lungs, but without            letting any out from mouth or nose.          6. Participants with implanted pacemakers or defibrillators may undergo a test where the            investigator give them extra heartbeats using their implanted device. The sensor vest            will be used to take recordings. The investigator want to see if V-CoS scores can be            lowered further than with exercise testing.          7. Participants will have a blood test or cheek swab to send for genetic testing. Then            participants will be followed up. If they have a defibrillator they will be telephoned            and seen in the ICD clinic every 6 months. If they do not have a defibrillator they will            get follow up by telephone every 3 months. Maximum follow up is 5 years.        The results will be looked at by independent researchers to reduce bias.
nan
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is a rare inherited condition       characterised pathologically by fibro-fatty replacement of myocytes usually (but not       exclusively) within the right ventricle. The clinical consequences of this process are       usually re-entrant ventricular arrhythmias which may be fatal and ARVC consequently is the       third most common cause of sudden cardiac death in the young. Diagnosis involves imaging,       electrocardiography, myocardial biopsy and genetic testing. Task Force criteria for the       diagnosis have been established. Nevertheless the condition can be difficult to diagnose (or       exclude), especially in less advanced disease, a common scenario in individuals with a family       member suffering from the condition. To complicate the situation further, we and others have       published recent reports suggesting that other infiltrative conditions within the heart       especially sarcoidosis, may fulfil Task Force criteria, leading to a false positive       diagnosis. This is a particular concern since the natural history and treatment options for       these conditions are very different.        Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disorder of unknown cause, predominantly affecting the lungs,       reticuloendothelial systems and skin. Cardiac involvement at autopsy is found in up to 25% of       affected individuals although clinical manifestations are only present in approximately 5%.       Isolated cardiac sarcoidosis, without manifestations in other systems is rare. The       non-caseating granulomas frequently infiltrate left ventricular & septal myocardium although       right ventricular involvement also occurs. Granulomas and resulting scar formation can cause       conduction disturbances, cardiac failure and ventricular arrhythmias. Sudden death is not       uncommon. Myocardial biopsy confirms the diagnosis but because of the patchy nature of the       granulomatous process, the test is only positive in 50% of the affected individuals. Other       investigations used to help make or support the diagnosis include echocardiography, MRI,       electrocardiography, PET, and corroborating evidence from high resolution CT chest and skin       biopsy. However, imaging findings may lack specificity for a precise aetiology. Cardiac MRI       identifies areas of myocardial scar or fibrosis, which is the final step in the disease       process. Although patterns of fibrosis have been well described in ARVC and cardiac       sarcoidosis, significant overlap exists between these two diseases with regard to the exact       location of fibrosis: for example ARVC can affect either or both ventricles. Typically,       although affecting predominantly the RV, in advanced stages there is also a well described       pattern of mid-wall patchy fibrosis in the basal infero-lateral wall of the left ventricle       and sometimes in the inter-ventricular septum. Conversely, sarcoidosis typically affects the       LV, and when fibrosis is found, the location is in the septal or infero-lateral territories.       In sarcoid, RV enlargement can occur either due to granulomatous involvement within the RV       myocardium, or secondary to the pulmonary hypertension associated with lung involvement.       Cases of sarcoidosis where the RV is involved may be more difficult to diagnose: The RV       enlargement and reduction in function overlap significantly with the Task Force Criteria for       the CMR diagnosis of ARVC, furthermore, the pattern of late gadolinium enhancement is not       sufficiently specific to guide the diagnosis to either ARVC or Cardiac Sarcoid with RV       involvement.
Heart failure (HF) affects 5 million individuals in the United States including over 10% of       elderly persons >75 years. HF mortality is high, with approximately 20% 1-year risk of death       (1). Diabetes (DM) is a common co-morbidity in patients with HF, present in approximately 25%       of stable outpatients and 40% of hospitalized patients with HF (2). Diabetes in HF patients       is associated with higher mortality (3,4). Hyperglycemia is independently associated with       hospitalization for HF, longer length of stay during HF hospitalization, as well as higher       in-hospital HF mortality (5-7). Furthermore, HF patients with more symptoms and worse       functional status are more likely to have insulin resistance (8,9).        Despite the abundance of evidence linking diabetes, insulin resistance, and hyperglycemia to       impaired functional status and worse outcomes in patients with HF, there is lack of data and       guidelines on optimal strategies to manage diabetes in patients with chronic HF. In       retrospective studies, many diabetes medications in HF have been associated with harm       including insulin, thiazolidinediones, and sulfonylureas (10). The only anti-hyperglycemic       medication that has been associated in retrospective studies with benefit in patients with HF       and diabetes is metformin, which recently had its "black box warning" in HF lifted by the       FDA, although most physicians are unaware of the change in labeling (10-12). Our analysis of       data on 401 advanced, systolic HF patients with DM followed at the Ahmanson-UCLA       Cardiomyopathy Center also found metformin therapy to be associated with improvement of left       ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) as well as decreased 1-year mortality (figure 1)(13).        Glycemic control in HF patients has not been prospectively studied; however, improved       glycemic control has potential benefits in HF, including improvement of myocardial glucose       utilization, decrease of potentially cardiotoxic free fatty acids, and reduced accumulation       of myocardial collagen and advanced glycation end-products (14,15). Metformin therapy,       compared to insulin and other antidiabetic medications, has potentially beneficial mechanisms       of action in HF including insulin sensitization, improvement in lipid profiles, and more       efficient myocardial metabolism (16,17). The purpose of this study is to gather pilot data       for an anticipated comprehensive study DM management in HF, with the goal of NIH funding.
Myocarditis or inflammatory cardiomyopathy refers to inflammation of the myocardium.       Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disorder of unknown etiology, which can result in       myocardial inflammation. Approximately 5% of patients with sarcoidosis have clinically       apparent cardiac involvement, yet autopsy series indicate that cardiac involvement is present       in up to 25% of cases. This discrepancy suggests that cardiac sarcoidosis may be       under-diagnosed in clinical practice. Recent studies have demonstrated high diagnostic       accuracy of both cardiac MRI and 18F-labelled fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET for detection       of cardiac involvement. However, cardiac MRI may fail to identify areas of active       inflammation even with fluid sensitive T2-weighted sequences.        Fasting 18F-FDG positron emission tomography (PET) has been shown to identify early cardiac       sarcoidosis with relatively high sensitivity. To date, simultaneous PET/MRI evaluation of       cardiac inflammation and sarcoidosis has only been described in limited case reports. The       objective of the proposed research is to evaluate the utility of simultaneous PET/MRI imaging       in patients with cardiac sarcoidosis and other inflammatory cardiomyopathies.
nan
nan
Gastroparesis is a disorder triggered by numerous causes and it is defined by symptoms and       with an objective evidence of delayed gastric emptying in the absence of obstruction (albeit       pyloric spasms may play a role in a subset of patients). Gastroparesis may be a consequence       of medication, surgery or diabetes but in approximately one third of patients, the cause       remains unknown and the patients are diagnosed with idiopathic gastroparesis. Effective       treatment for gastroparesis is challenging especially in patients with severe symptoms. The       efficacy of prokinetics is dubious since they have not proven real clinical efficacy in       placebo controlled trials. In refractory gastroparesis, endoscopic or surgical treatments may       therefore be considered. Endoscopic treatments include intrapyloric injection of botulinum       toxin and transpyloric insertion of a metallic stent. Surgical options involve implantation       of a gastric "pacemaker" (gastric stimulation), pyloroplasty and subtotal gastrectomy. The       partial effectiveness of botulinum toxin injection, stents and pyloroplasty suggests that       disruption of the pyloric muscle may lead to a decreased intrapyloric tone and consequently       to a symptomatic improvement in some patients with refractory gastroparesis.        Recently, a new endoscopic technique, gastric endoscopic per oral pyloromyotomy (G-POEM) has       been introduced with promising preliminary results. Uncontrolled studies with so far limited       number of patients have demonstrated a significant symptomatic improvement in approximately       70% of patients and improved or normalized of gastric emptying in more than a half of       patients after G-POEM. A prospective uncontrolled study suggested that patients with       idiopathic or post-surgical gastroparesis experiences higher success rate after G-POEM       (70-80%) compared to patients with diabetic gastroparesis (50%).        G-POEM is, in principle, adaptation of POEM (per-oral endoscopic myotomy) in the stomach.       POEM is now considered a standard treatment for esophageal achalasia and it has been shown to       be safe and effective. In contrast to achalasia, pathophysiology of pyloric function in       patients with gastroparesis is less understood and the explanation of how and why G-POEM       should work is some-how hypothetical. For example, presumed pylorospasm has not been       demonstrated as the predictive factor for treatment success of G-POEM yet. Refractory       gastroparesis is often accompanied by psychological or even psychiatric disturbances and       hence a placebo" effect of G-POEM cannot be ruled out. Therefore, the real clinical efficacy       of G-POEM can only be demonstrated in a clinical randomized sham-controlled trial.        To assess the severity of gastroparesis-related symptoms, the Gastroparesis Cardinal Symptom       Index (GCSI) has been developed for this item. The GCSI is part of a larger questionnaire       PAGI-SYM (Patient Assessment of Upper Gastrointestinal Symptom severity index) established       for assessment of patient-reported symptoms in gastroparesis (dyspepsia and gastroesophageal       reflux). PAGI-SYM as well as GCSI subscale scores varied significantly by global disease       severity, with higher (worse) scores observed in those subjects who rated their gastroparesis       as moderate to severe.        The aim of this prospective, sham-controlled, cross-over study (cross-over for patients       randomized to the sham arm) is to compare short and long-term efficacy and safety of G-POEM       in patients with refractory gastroparesis. Symptoms and objective parameters of gastric       emptying will be the main outcome criteria. The reason of using a sham protocol is to control       for the potential confounders (therapeutic effects of touch and belief, which are components       of the placebo effect).        Investigators plan to randomize 86 patients (43 in the active arm, ratio 1:1 active vs.       sham). Sample size is calculated based on expected therapeutic success of G-POEM in 50% of       patients vs. 20% in the sham group; significance level 0,05; study power 0,8; beta error 0,2;       adjustment for 15% expected drop out.        Patients will be randomised in blocks of 6, stratified according to the etiologies:       (idiopathic, diabetic, and post-surgical; patients after esophagectomy with gastric       pull-through will not be included). Control visits will be scheduled at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36       months. The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients with treatment success in the       active group vs. sham group at 6 months after the procedure. Several secondary outcomes will       also be assessed, including procedure-related parameters and safety parameters and change in       Gastric Emptying Study (GET) after G-POEM vs. sham. After 6 months, patients randomized to       the sham group will be offered G-POEM procedure and further followed up (cross-over part of       the study) providing that they did not have a therapeutic effect of the sham procedure.
nan
A prospective single-centre pilot study will be conducted to investigate this topic. Fifteen       patients, with a history of previous ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) resulting in       myocardial scar and elected to CRT implant at the OUH, will be enrolled in this study.        Compared to standard practice, additional research investigations will be a baseline visit       for eligibility assessment, informed consent and pre-CRT implant cardiac MRI, a       three-dimensional electroanatomical map reconstruction of the CS venous system during the       standard CRT implant and the evaluation of the acute haemodynamic response (AHR, percentage       increase of LV-dP/dT max) of MPP over conventional single-site LV pacing during the CRT       implant.        The cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be performed in each patient 1-2 weeks       before the CRT implant during the baseline visit. It will provide information regarding       presence and location of myocardial scar and anatomy of the CS venous system.        A de-novo CRT implant will be performed under fluoroscopic guidance as per standard care. All       subjects will be implanted with a regulatory approved St. Jude Medical CRT device compatible       with MPP feature (models n° CD3271-40(Q), CD3371-40(Q), CD3371-40C(QC) or newer) and St. Jude       Medical quadripolar left ventricular lead (Quartet 1458Q or newer). The choice of the right       ventricular and right atrial leads will be left to the operator. After implant of the right       ventricular and right atrial leads, a CS venogram will be then performed as per standard       practice (see intervention section for more details).        A three-dimensional electroanatomical map of the CS venous system will be constructed with       Precision mapping system and a Biotronik Vision wire (Biotronik Se & Co. KG, Berlin, Germany)       by using the CS venogram as a guide. The map will be merged with the correspondent cardiac       MRI images in order to locate the myocardial scar in respect to the CS branches. This will       allow the identification of two target CS branches for the study measurements, one located in       the peri-infarct region and one located in the remote myocardium.        A Certus PressureWire will be then introduced into the LV. A PhysioMon software (Radi Medical       Systems, Uppsala, Sweden) will be used for electronic calculation of the LV-dP/dTmax from       every heartbeat for a period of at least thirty seconds to ensure steady-state conditions.       The baseline LV-dP/dTmax will be measured during ventricular spontaneous rhythm.        A St. Jude Medical quadripolar left ventricular lead will be sequentially placed in the       "peri-infarct" CS branch and in the "remote myocardium" CS branch. In each site the       percentage increase in LV-dP/dTmax (Acute Haemodynamic Response, AHR) produced by both       conventional single-site and MPP LV pacing to will be measured. All 4 poles of the       quadripolar lead will be used in turn for conventional single-site LV pacing, 3 different       configurations will be used in turn for MPP. The LV-dP/dTmax will be recorded for each pacing       configuration in order to identify the MPP and the single-site LV pacing configurations       producing the best AHR (best percentage increase of LV-dP/dTmax).        The AHR produced by the best MPP configuration in peri-infarct region will be compared with       the AHR produced by the best MPP configuration in the remote myocardium. Moreover, the       percentage increase of LV-dP/dTmax produced by the best MPP configuration over the best       conventional single-site LV pacing in the peri-infarct region will be compared with the same       measurement obtained in the remote myocardium.        The decision about the final position of the LV lead and the activation of MPP feature after       the CRT implant will be left to operator preference.
Sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) has over the last 20 years been recognised as an efficient       treatment option for faecal incontinence (FI). The therapy is recommended by the       International Continence Society (ICS) if conservative treatments such as; regulation of diet       and fibre supplements, medication, biofeedback therapy, glycerol suppositories, mini enema or       transanal irrigation have been insufficient to improve continence to a satisfactory level.        The SNS therapy has traditionally been applied as a two step procedure. Firstly, a 3-4 week       test-period, often with a permanent electrode with tines, followed by permanent implantation       if at least a 50% symptom reduction has been obtained during the test stimulation.        In a selected patient group(idiopathic faecal incontinence or incontinence as a result of an       external anal sphincter tear (<160 degrees)) we have evidence that 90% of patients will have       a successful test period (≥50% reduction in incontinence episodes). If preoperative there is       motor response on at least 3 out of 4 poles on the lead, at a threshold ≤1.5 mAMP(unpublished       data, submitted for publication) .        Thus, only 10% of the patients have the lead explanted after 3 to 4 weeks. In 90% of the       patients a pacemaker is implanted after the test period, these patients will have an       additional operation that could have been avoided if they had the permanent pacemaker       implanted at the first stage.        Hypotheses In a selected patient group suffering from faecal incontinence a one-stage       permanent implant will be possible. The functional results will be improved as more time can       be spent finding the optimal pacemaker settings as the risk of infection is reduced compared       to the stage implant. One-Stage implantation gives the opportunity to test the amount of       placebo effect with SNS.        During the first 3 months postoperative patients will be randomized to either stimulation       amplitude set at 90% of sensory threshold (control group) or 3 periods of stimulation at       0.05v (placebo), 50% and 90% of sensory threshold. Patients are randomized in a 1 to 2       pattern. After the initial 3 months the stimulation amplitude is increased to sensory       threshold. After six months the project ends and the number of patients achieving the 50%       improvement in incontinence episodes are evaluated.
Catheter ablation for the treatment of the symptoms of fibrillation is now a well-established       technique. The technique is complex and commonly undertaken under general anaesthesia.       Catheters are introduced into the circulation from the veins at the top of the leg and       advanced to the right side of the heart. Using x-ray and ultrasound guidance, the catheters       are passed to the left atrium by puncturing the muscle that divides left and right atria       (septum). A model of the left atrium is created and this used to guide the movement of an       ablation catheter across the tissue and create ablation lesions that lead to electrical       isolation of target sites.        Under general anaesthesia, the lungs are inflated and deflated via the ventilator circuit.       The expansion of the lungs results in movement of the heart with each respiratory cycle. This       leads to catheter instability as the tissue is moved towards and away from a catheter       positioned in the left atrium. This movement is particularly marked at the back of the left       atrium. This instability can lead to real time variation in the delivery of energy which can       result in ineffective lesions. These will then translate acutely to incomplete isolation and       the need for further ablation (thereby increasing procedure time) and later into reconnection       of tissue which can result in repeated procedures being needed to achieve an effective       outcome. Each procedure carries risk of minor and major complications therefore measures to       improve first time success are critical.        Current research supports the use of steerable catheter sheaths (tubes through which the       catheters travel to the atria) and 3 dimensional mapping in improving ablation parameters.       Data also exists demonstrating significant variation in catheter contact despite these       measures. In order to improve catheter stability further, changes to the mode of ventilation       has been studied. Small studies have shown that by stopping cardiac movement altogether by       transiently stopping ventilation (apnoea) catheter stability is improved and ablation is more       effective. However, intermittent apnoea is not an effective method of ventilation in long       cases. An alternative is high frequency jet ventilation. This is where the lungs are       ventilated with low volume, high speed and high pressure breaths. This technique is well       established and has safety data in upper airway surgery and liver radiology procedures where       movement of airways and diaphragm needs to be minimized. In view of this, this technique has       been studied in AF ablation and has been shown to improve catheter stability and energy       delivery with no increase in complications related to the mode of ventilation. However,       existing studies have focused mainly in paroxysmal AF patients (where less ablation is       needed) and conducted in a non randomized trial design.        The investigators wish to research the use of HFJV in patients undergoing ablation for       persistent AF in a prospective and randomised trial to answer the primary and secondary       questions shown below.
nan
Inclusion Criteria;          -  Patients undergoing elective Electrophysiological Studies +/Ablation          -  Age 18-80          -  Normal Heart on Pre-procedural Echocardiogram        Exclusion criteria;          -  Atrial Fibrillation          -  Evidence of anterograde conducting accessory pathway          -  Permanent Pacemaker insitu          -  Pregnant          -  Breast Feeding        Outcome Measures; Change in load-independent indices of LV and RV contractility before and       after pacing intervention. LV and RV function measured by transthoracic echocardiography and       tissue Doppler imaging.
This study is a Prospective, Multicenter Observational Post Market Release Study. It shall       involve around 2,000 patients that are eligible for Implantable Cardiac Pacemakers (IPG)       implantation, 500 patients eligible for Cardiac Resynchronization Pacemakers (CRT-P)       implantation, 1,000 patients eligible for the implantation of Implantable Cardioverter       Defibrillators with or without Cardiac Resynchronization Pacemakers (CDI, CRT-D), and around       20 centers in Brazil. Patients will be consecutively enrolled in centers among those selected       for the implantation of a Medtronic device in accordance with indications approved.
nan
nan
nan
CRT as a treatment for heart failure in selected patients has been shown to decrease both       hospitalizations and mortality as well as improving symptoms and quality of life, and is       hence supported by guidelines including NICE (United Kingdom National Institute for clinical       excellence) . It is achieved by placing a lead to pace the epicardial left ventricle (LV) via       the coronary sinus and a coronary vein. Unfortunately, in 5-8% of patients the LV lead cannot       be delivered and in 15-20% the lead is placed in a suboptimal position due to the presence of       left ventricular scarring, phrenic nerve stimulation or adverse coronary vein anatomy. After       lead delivery, 20-45% of patients undergoing CRT fail to respond to their implant. Suboptimal       lead position is thought to be one of the most significant causes of non-response.        In the case of failed lead placement there are no well-established alternatives. The most       common solution is open-chest surgery using a thoracotomy to place a lead on the epicardial       surface of the heart, a procedure with considerable morbidity and a risk of death. Given the       co-morbidity profile of patients suitable for CRT, and their severe heart failure, many       patients are not fit enough for surgical lead placement. An alternative approach is a       percutaneous procedure passing the lead through a puncture in the inter-atrial septum and       across the mitral valve, in order to pace the endocardial surface of the left ventricle. This       is achieved in a complex and technically-challenging procedure using both femoral and       subclavian venous access. This approach exposes a long segment of lead to the systemic       circulation, particularly in the low-pressure, low-flow left atrium, raising the       thromboembolic risk. It can also worsen mitral regurgitation and exposes the mitral valve to       a risk of damage and incompetence should lead extraction be required.        Recent studies have suggested that LV endocardial pacing offers a number of physiological       advantages over the conventional epicardial approach. The lead can be positioned at any site       on the endocardial surface, away from scar tissue and the phrenic nerve and at the site of       maximal haemodynamic improvement, rather than being limited by venous anatomy, thus improving       response to CRT. There is also evidence that endocardial pacing may of itself improve       haemodynamics to a greater extent than epicardial pacing, in both animal models and in acute       haemodynamic studies in humans, and provide a more physiological mechanism of activation,       which may be less arrhythmogenic. Consistent with this, response to CRT with endocardial       pacing in patients who had not responded to epicardial CRT has been reported, and response       rates in previous reports of LV endocardial pacing have been high at approximately 90%.        Targeting of CRT lead placement is an important factor and multiple techniques have been       investigated. Targeting of lead placement guided by the site of latest mechanical activation       assessed with speckle-tracking echocardiography has been shown to increase response and       improve long-term clinical outcomes. Anatomy limits epicardial lead positioning and the best       outcomes were obtained in the 60% of patients with a lead able to be placed in the optimal       site4. Cardiac output monitoring used to guide lead placement maximizes cardiac output       achieved and increases the frequency of long term improvement in cardiac function. Electrical       mapping can identify the site of latest electrical activation, although there is not yet       evidence as to whether guiding lead position with this improves clinical outcomes. No       comparisons between these techniques have been performed.        There is little published so far on how to optimize lead positioning for endocardial LV       leads. Groups have so far used invasive cardiac output monitoring to assess the best position       for endocardial leads, and have shown that this optimizes cardiac output at the time of       implant. Despite the best available evidence for guiding conventional LV lead positioning       supporting speckle-tracking echocardiography, this has not yet been used for guiding       endocardial lead positioning.        The investigators propose to investigate a novel LV endocardial pacing technique using a       puncture through the inter-ventricular septum. This technique has been developed and used in       Oxford for a small number of patients, with an initial case series soon to be submitted for       publication. Potential advantages include that the inter-ventricular septum is punctured from       the same subclavian vein access site through which the other leads are inserted, and that the       dilated left ventricular cavity provides a large target, reducing complications. Furthermore,       lead placement and extraction would not risk damage to the mitral valve.        All patients who have a left ventricular endocardial pacing lead implanted should be       anticoagulated to minimize the risk of stroke from systemic thromboembolism. It has       previously been shown that most lead thrombi arise on (right) atrial leads. The       investigators' study technique would allow LV endocardial pacing with no lead in the left       atrium, likely reducing thromboembolic stroke risk. It is likely that a significant       proportion of patients eligible for this study will already be on warfarin due to prior       atrial fibrillation or other indications.        Over the last 12 months the investigators have used this novel technique on 6 patients, all       of whom had an LV lead safely delivered without complication. Having refined the technique,       this Phase 2 study aims to assess the feasibility and safety of the procedure in a larger       cohort of patients as well as documenting echocardiographic, biochemical, and functional       response.        The population under study would be two groups: firstly, patients with conventional       indications for CRT who are not able to have lead implantation via the normal coronary sinus       route due to adverse anatomy revealed during a failed prior attempt; and secondly, patients       with a successful conventional CRT lead placement who have not responded to the therapy       (non-responders). Patients with a failed lead implantation would previously either have been       considered for surgical epicardial lead implantation or left with no CRT device.       Non-responders are also assessed for surgical lead implantation if they are felt to be likely       to respond.        No single technique is known to define optimal lead positioning, and accordingly the       investigators intend to use multiple techniques to try and optimize lead positioning, both to       try and find the optimal site for each patient, and to allow for comparisons between them.       This would include speckle-tracking echocardiography before the procedure, as well as       electrical mapping of the LV activation pattern and cardiac output monitoring during the       procedure.
Sudden cardiac death (SCD) occurs in up to 1/3 of patients with AL amyloidosis within the       first 90 days but conflicting findings have been reported on the mechanism. Electromechanical       dissociation (EMD) is thought to account for some 6-7 cases, underscoring doubts about a role       for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). However, there are studies that have       described appropriate and effective ICD therapies in 27% to 32% of cases, similar to primary       prevention in other disorders. The strength of evidence in all these studies is fairly weak       (small, single-centre, retrospective, not linked to mechanism), but this potentially makes       ICD implantation more important than in other conditions. It has also been shown in a study       with small patient numbers that the pre-terminal event is often bradycardia, which may be       amenable to pacemaker therapy. At present, the available information regarding arrhythmia       burden in cardiac amyloidosis is limited, and further data are crucial to better guide       patient selection for device therapy.        Whilst the burden of arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death appear considerable, there is       limited characterisation of the incidence and predictive factors for arrhythmia requiring       treatment. Cardiac involvement is the main driver of outcome in cardiac amyloidosis.       Amyloidosis is a continuum from small focal amyloid deposits to extensive diffuse myocardial       infiltration. The dynamic and progressive nature of amyloid deposition is likely to create an       arrhythmogenic substrate that alters over time. For example, patchy amyloid deposits       occurring in earlier disease might potentially provide an anatomical substrate enabling       re-entry and underlie ventricular tachyarrhythmias, whilst diffuse transmural amyloid       deposition may increase risk of AV block and bradyarrythmias. The investigators believe that       amyloid deposition will be associated with increased risk of fatal arrhythmias, including AV       block, bradyarrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias. There are no current criteria or       arrhythmia risk stratification available to guide device implantation in patients with       cardiac amyloidosis. There are also limited data available on predictive disease       characteristics that promote arrhythmia        Current monitoring for arrhythmia involves routine 12-lead ECG checks at annual or       six-monthly clinic visits. Longer durations of monitoring (24- or 72-hour Holter monitoring       or implantable loop recorders, ILR) are undertaken only when clinically indicated. Other       cardiac investigations that are routinely performed in cardiac amyloidosis include       echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.        Current management of arrhythmia is limited to anticoagulation as per the CHADS2VASC score       for atrial fibrillation, and permanent pacemaker insertion for standard indications including       high degree atrioventricular blocks. There are limited data available to inform insertion of       defibrillators, and this is currently assessed on a case by case basis.        Cardiac biomarkers may be helpful in raising clinical suspicion of cardiac amyloidosis       patients with known plasma cell dyscrasia and should prompt further investigation with       electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiography. The combination of cardiac biomarkers serum       N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and troponin is useful to       stratify prognosis and guide treatment strategies in AL amyloidosis. In these patients, ECG       tends to show low voltage complexes with common observations including repolarisation       abnormalities, pseudo-infarction patterns, left anterior hemiblock, ischaemic or non-specific       T wave abnormalities, and rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation. Echocardiography       shows the cardiac amyloid phenotype is a thick-walled ventricle, small left ventricular       chamber volume, valve thickening, atrial enlargement and signs of elevated filling pressures       with a restrictive diastolic filling.        CMR is at the forefront of diagnosis and monitoring of cardiac amyloidosis. CMR uses its       intrinsic capacity to characterise cardiac tissue on the basis of fundamental MR properties       (T1 and T2), and these intrinsic properties can be strengthened by administration of       gadolinium-based contrast agents. CMR can visually depict, with late gadolinium enhancement       (LGE), and quantify, with T1 mapping, the continuum of cardiac amyloid deposition allowing       for noninvasive measurement of cardiac amyloid burden. Transmurality of LGE, elevation in       native T1 and extracellular volume fraction (ECV) all correlate with amyloid burden.        In a study from the UK National Amyloidosis Centre (NAC) published in 2015, ILRs were       inserted into 20 consecutive patients with severe cardiac AL amyloidosis. The most important       finding was that the terminal syncopal phase prior to death revealed initial cardiac       decompensation to be associated with marked bradycardia usually caused by complete heart       block, subsequently followed by pulseless electrical activity. But this study was done in       patients with end stage AL amyloidosis, and rhythm disturbances in the wide spectrum of       amyloid infiltration has never been studied.        Currently, arrhythmia risk prediction is limited despite existing structural and functional       assessment tools. ILR data would provide invaluable information on arrhythmia burden, which       may be correlated with information obtained from the existing standard-of-care (SOC)       structural, biochemical and functional assessments such as, but not limited to, T1 mapping       and ECV from CMR, serum biomarkers, and the six-minute walk test (6MWT). These data together       would provide a global picture of the arrhythmia burden and contributing risk factors; this       has the potential to transform our understanding of arrhythmia in cardiac amyloidosis.        Furthermore, improvements in ILR technology have made these devices more patient-friendly.       New ILRs no longer require surgical implantation but can be subcutaneously injected in the       outpatient setting. They are simple to use, with automatic recording and uploading of data       over each 24-hour period for up to 3 years.        An ILR is a small injectable electronic device (approximate size 45 x 7 x 4 mm, about       one-third the size of a AAA battery), which is inserted under the skin within the       subcutaneous tissue in the chest. It is routinely used for continuous cardiac monitoring for       a range of symptoms (syncope, pre-syncope or palpitations of suspected cardiac origin,       arrhythmia) in the wider National Health Service (NHS), and at the Royal Free Hospital (RFH).       The required incision for device insertion is less than 1 cm, and it can safely be inserted       by a trained healthcare professional (HCP) in the outpatient setting. It is safe and       well-tolerated once inserted. One suture is required to close the wound.        As with any such procedure there is a small risk of bleeding and/or infection, both of which       are rare. The risk of infection may be minimised by the maintenance of aseptic technique and       sterile environment throughout the procedure. Patients will remain in the department under       observation for 1 hour after the procedure, and the insertion site will be checked for       bleeding and any other abnormalities before the patient is allowed to leave.        Patients will attend their GP surgery (or return to the RFH, whichever is their preference)       within 7 to 10 days for removal of the suture and for examination of the insertion site. The       device may be removed (as per SOC) when the battery runs out or 3 years after insertion,       whichever happened first. The device may be removed earlier if indicated by, for example,       adverse event. The ILR may also be left in situ once the patient has completed participation       or when the battery runs out, according to patient preference.        ILRs are used in routine practice where indicated for continuous cardiac monitoring in       patients with later-stage cardiac amyloidosis but are not currently routinely implanted in       patients with early stage disease. Although this study will involve implanting ILRs earlier       on in the disease process than usual, this is not anticipated to present any additional risk       to patients. Therefore the risk categorisation for this trial would be Type A: Comparable to       the risk of standard medical care for this particular patient group. Furthermore, there is       the potential benefit of early intervention to treat arrhythmias, which could be       life-changing and possibly even life-saving for some patients.
Oral anti thrombotic medications are commonly prescribed for patients with venous       thromboembolism, chronic atrial fibrillation, prosthetic heart valves, etc. As       gastrointestinal endoscopy in often required in these patients, one should consider the       urgency of the procedure, the risk of bleeding (related both to antithrombotic therapy itself       and to the type of endoscopic procedure) and the risk for thromboembolic events related to       interruption of antithrombotic therapy.Current ASGE guidelines state that aspirin may be       continued for all diagnostic and most therapeutic endoscopic procedures . As to oral       anticoagulants (ie. warfarin), a distinction is made as to the risk of thromboembolism (high       vs. low patient risk of thrombosis) and the risk of bleeding ( high vs. low procedure risk of       bleeding). ASGE and ACCP Guidelines suggest discontinuing anticoagulation in the       periendoscopic period in patients with low risk of thromboembolic events (appendix I), while       continuing anticoagulation in patients with high risk of thromboembolic events. Switching to       LMWH , termed "bridging therapy", is suggested when anticoagulation need to be continued.       However there is little evidence to support such an approach. In addition, there are a number       of potential drawbacks to bridging therapy with heparin in the periprocedural period. This       approach consumes considerable healthcare resources, involves a short period of normal       coagulability (if not hypercoagulability) with an associated risk of thromboembolism.       Finally, In a recent systematic review of 34 studies of anticoagulated patients (19 of which       enrolled endoscopic procedures), bridging therapy was found to be associated with increased       rates of overall and major bleeding, and no difference in thrombotic events, as compared to       no bridging. Colonic polypectomy is considered to be a procedure with high risk for bleeding.       The reported risk of polypectomy related bleeding ranges in various reports from as low as       0.3% to as high as 6.1 %, averaging in most studies 1-2.5% Bleeding can be immediate or       delayed, with the latter being a bit more frequent, occurring in up to 2% of patients, as       early as few hours and as late as 29 days after the procedure, though mostly in post       procedure days. Polyp size greater than 1-2 cm was found to be associated with increased risk       for immediate and delayed postpolypectomy bleeding. As an example, bleeding occurred in ~1%       of polypectomies < 1 cm and in 6.5% of polypectomies > 2 cm.Other factors found to be related       to bleeding risk are age, location (Cecal and right colon > rest of colon), cardiovascular       and renal comorbidities, and use of anticoagulation. The continuation of anticoagulation       further increases bleeding risk. In a 2004 retrospective study of 1657 patients undergoing       polypectomy, post procedural bleeding rate was 2.2% (86% immediate, 14% delayed), and       Warfarin was found to be associated with an Odds ratio of 13.37 for bleeding. In contrast to       other studies, age, size and location of the polyp were not found to be associated with risk       of bleeding. On the other hand, temporary suspension of anticoagulation therapy is       associated, at least theoretically, with a risk of thromboembolic complications. The       magnitude of that risk was reported to be low (~ 0.7%) in 2 retrospective studies and one       meta-analysis but admittedly high risk patients were underrepresented. In fact, actual       overall rates (with and without bridging) of perioperative thrombotic complications are       higher and range from 0.9-1.8% , with a corresponding bleeding rate of 1.9%-2.7%.As to       bridging therapy, evidence comes almost exclusively from retrospective studies. Recent       meta-analysis showed that, compared to no anticoagulation, perioperative bridging therapy       with heparin increased the overall risk of major bleeding without a significant decrease in       the risk of thromboembolic events. Later on, a prospective, randomized study comparing       bridging therapy with continued warfarin in patients with moderate-to-high risk of       thromboembolism undergoing defibrillator or pacemaker surgery (a high bleeding risk procedure       by definition) , found more major bleeding in the bridging group as compared to continued       warfarin, with no difference in thrombotic outcome.Apart from the above mentioned paper, as       far as the investigators know, no comparative prospective study compared bridging with       continued warfarin.        Polyps up to 1 cm in diameter have been safely removed in patients on warfarin therapy. In       one retrospective series, warfarin was discontinued 36 hours prior to colonoscopy to avoid       supra therapeutic INR. 3 out of 123 patients who underwent 225 polypectomies on warfarin had       bleeding, only one of which required treatment. All patients were prophylactically treated       with clips.19 In a recent randomized trial, 70 patients with a total of 159 polyps up to 1 cm       in diameter underwent polypectomy while taking warfarin. Patients were assigned to have their       polyps removed either eith a cold snare technique or electrocautery. Immediate bleeding       occurred in 10 of 70 patients (14%) and was more common in patients who had their polyps       removed using electrocautery (23% vs 6%). No delayed bleeding occurred in the cold group       whereas 5 (14%) patients required endoscopic hemostasis in the electrocautery group.        As immediate bleeding can be effectively managed endoscopically, the investigators should       question if there is any potential benefit of periprocedural bridging in terms of preventing       delayed bleeding (occurring during warfarin-LMWH overlap or following warfarin re-loading).        Considering the fact that ~ 25% of patients will be found to have colorectal polyps in       screening colonoscopy, and that the majority of these polyps are < 20 mm, A cardinal question       is whether the investigators should keep choosing among the two traditional policies: advise       all our patients to stop warfarin ahead of screening colonoscopies,Or keep them       anticoagulated and reschedule them to a therapeutic colonoscopy in the face of discovering       colonic polyps (an approach that was found to be cost effective in one study comparing these       two policies).        The investigators think a third option might be better : keeping patients anticoagulated with       warfarin, and perform polypectomies for polyps up to 20 mm, while re-scheduling patients with       larger polyps.        To summarize, the three most important conclusions from the data presented in this       introduction are:          1. Small polyps was shown to be safely removed under Warfarin          2. Delayed bleeding occurs after bridging is finished          3. Bridging therapy is probably related to increased bleeding, theoretically related to            increased thromboembolic risk and is logistically complex Taken together, these            background data underlies our logic to perform a prospective study comparing bleeding            rates following polypectomies of small polyps in orally anticoagulated vs. bridged            patients.        Hypothesis:In patients with moderate to high risk of thromboembolic events undergoing       elective colonoscopy, a strategy of uninterrupted oral anticoagulation will lead to       equivalent bleeding rates compared with conventional bridging anticoagulation.        Study Objectives:Primary study Objective : to evaluate the safety of polypectomy under       Warfarin therapy compared to currently recommended bridging therapy with heparin or LMWH       Study Design:Following signing on informed consent, patients on chronic Warfarin therapy       meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria , who are scheduled for elective diagnostic       colonoscopy will be randomly assigned to one of two groups, the first of which continue       Warfarin treatment as usual while the second is switched to bridging therapy with LMWH       according to recommendations of the ACCP guidelines. INR will be checked on the day before       the colonoscopy (day -1) in both groups. Most recent CBC value (from recent 3 months) will       serve as baseline value. If not available - CBC will be done during the recruitment period.       On the day of colonoscopy (day 0), patients with INR values within therapeutic range or       supratherapeutic value up to 0.5 units will proceed through colonoscopy. In case no INR value       from day -1 is available, patient ambulatory INR values from the last three months will be       reviewed and patient enrolled if >=80% of values were within therapeutic window. The warfarin       dose on day 0 will be taken only following the supervision period after the colonoscopy. In       case the INR was more than 0.5 above therapeutic range on day -1, therapy will be resumed on       day1. As to the colonoscopy, both groups will be scheduled to early morning and will be       monitored for clinical follow up for 6 hours at Endoscopy unit. Polyps up to 10 mm (estimated       using the open-forceps technique, forceps span=8mm) will be removed with cold or hot methods       (according to physician preferences). Hemostatic clips will be applied if deemed necessary       according to the performing physician judgement . In case of multiple polyps, the number of       polypectomies done will be determined by the endoscopist. For polyps measuring > 10 mm,       colonoscopy will be rescheduled (but small polyps will still be removed during the index       colonoscopy).Following the procedure, patients will be monitored for 6 hours at the Endoscopy       unit. Delayed bleeding will be monitored by the patient on a daily follow up sheet.       Ambulatory CBC will be done a week following the colonoscopy . Investigators will make Phone       calls for follow up at day 5,10,14,30 . Outpatient clinic follow up will take place on day 30       ± 7 days.Patients will be instructed to contact the investigating physician in case of black       stools or BRBPR or otherwise come to ER in case of any continuous bleeding or bleeding       perceived to be significant by patient or family.        Study Procedures:Recruitment visit at GI institute outpatient clinics performed at least 1       week ahead of the Colonoscopy;Patient's primary care physician will be contacted by the study       coordinator upon signing the informed consent, in order to perform necessary blood test       before and after the procedure.; colonoscopy (day 0);Follow up period of 14 days via phone       calls and patient sheets;Clinical follow up visit at day 30 Sample Size:The bleeding rate       post polypectomy in orally anticoagulated patient undergoing polypectomy of small polyps on       Warfarin was reported to be as low as 1% in recent trials (see background). The rate of       postpolypectomy bleeding in the general population is 1-2.5% . As bridging was found to       increase bleeding compared to no bridging in the largest available meta-analysis, the       investigators assume a bleeding rate of 4% in the bridging group. The sample size was       estimated based on the complicated rates of delayed bleeding within 2 weeks after polypectomy       and was based on detecting equivalence in proportions at the 5% level of significance with a       power of 80%, yielding a sample size of 286 (143 each group) .        Statistical Analysis:Descriptive statistics including 95% CIs will be calculated for all       baseline variables using means, medians, SDs and interquartile ranges for continuous       variables and rates and proportions for discrete variables for each treatment arm. For the       primary outcome, clinically significant bleeding, treatment arms will be compared using       chi-square test. Baseline characteristics will be compared and, if any clinically significant       differences are identified, a logistic regression analysis will be conducted to compare       clinically significant bleeding in between the two treatment arms adjusting for these       differences. Same analysis will be followed for the secondary outcomes.        Ethical issues:The investigator will ensure that this study is conducted in accordance with       the principles of the "Declaration of Helsinki" guidelines and with the laws and regulations       of the state of Israel.        Written informed consent must be obtained prior to participation in the study.
Aortic stenosis is one of the most common cardiology diseases. If untreated, symptomatic       aortic stenosis rapidly leads to death. Most of the time, this disease affects old fragile       people for whom conventional surgery is countered or very risky. That is why Trans aortic       valve implantation has been developed since 2002, first to treat rejected patients from       conventional surgery, then to treat high surgical risk patients and nowadays probably       intermediate surgical risk patient. Indeed, thanks to prodigious technical and human       progress, procedure induced complication have clearly decreased. But TAVI related       complications are still recurrent and the investigators are searching a way to decrease them.        One of them could be image fusion, since it may decrease radiation exposure and contrast       agent use correlated to acute kidney failure. It may also improve valve placement position,       and the investigators know that many rhythmic (atrio-ventricular block) and valvular       (significant aortic regurgitation) complications are partially due to placement mistakes. So       the investigators hope that image fusion will decrease these complications.        The investigators will include 40 prospective and consecutive patients. Inclusion criterion       will be all major patients admitted in Nantes CHU for transfemoral aortic valve replacement       with SAPIEN® 3 valve. Exclusion criterion will be women of childbearing age without       contraception, impossible written consent, judiciary protected people. After inclusion,       patients will be divided into two groups: the 20 first included will be control group, the 20       following patients will be the fusion group. For control group TAVI procedure will be the       usual one, for fusion group the procedure will be the usual one with addition of computed       tomography 3D images fusion with fluoroscopy 2D images. The only difference during all       patient medical care will be the addition of image fusion in fusion group. Before and after       procedure, both groups will have the usual medical monitoring and the appropriated medical       interventions to participants case.        Main evaluation criterion will be radiation exposure, measured by dose area product (DAP).        Secondary evaluation criterion will be procedural as:          -  contrast agent volume used (mL),          -  procedure duration (min),          -  subjective usefulness of image fusion evaluated on a 0 to 3 scale          -  procedure failure : death, more than one valve implantation, valve dysfunction (mean            trans-valvular gradient > 20 mmHg or moderate to severe aortic regurgitation) These            criterions will be evaluated immediately after procedure.        The investigators will also evaluated procedure induced complications as:          -  de novo pacemaker implantation          -  de novo left bundle branch          -  non minor vascular complication on VARC-2 definition          -  major bleeding (BARC 3 or 5)          -  acute kidney failure (AKIN 2 or 3)          -  significant aortic regurgitation ≥ 2/4 These complications occurrence will be evaluated            after 1 month follow up, during the usual following consultation with echocardiography.        Then differences between will be tested with appropriated statistical methods.
Introduction A mortality benefit of implanted cardiac defibrillators in patients (pts) with       severely impaired LV function has been established in multiple large trials. Atrial       fibrillation, -flutter and -tachycardia are a common comorbidity in this patient population.       Cardioversion is the method of choice to reestablish normal sinus rhythm in this instance.       Safety and efficacy of external electrical cardioversion (CV) in patients with pacemakers and       ICDs could be shown in several smaller single center trials. Safety of internal cardioversion       was described in several smaller trials. Reports on efficacy of internal CV vary between 33%       and 83% .        Performing external instead of internal cardioversion in pts with implanted ICDs is more       feasible for most hospitals, as CV can be performed without a programmer present, e.g. on the       ICU ward, and device interrogation can be done after CV at the remote ICD/pacemaker clinic. A       working group of the German cardiac society recommends internal CV for patients carrying an       ICD, suggesting a superior safety profile for internal CV, despite conflicting data and a       lack of evidence and on this issue. Thus, posing a problem in logistics for many hospitals.        No scientific data on safety and efficacy endpoints comparing internal vs external CV is       currently available.        Aim of the study To compare external vs internal electrical cardioversion for atrial       arrhythmias and establish a safety and efficacy profile for external and internal       cardioversion in large cohort of ICD patients. This study will provide vital evidence for       future recommendations regarding cardioversion in the growing population of patients carrying       implanted ICD and pacemakers. The main purpose will be to establish non-inferiority of       external electrical cardioversion to internal electrical cardioversion. This would impact day       to day practice in many arrhythmia centers and smaller hospitals around the world.        Trial populations and choice of primary analysis set The full-analysis set (FAS) is derived       from the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. This dataset includes all trial subjects       randomized, with any valid data on the primary target variables "occurrence of severe lead       and device impairment" and "restoration of normal sinus rhythm".        The per-protocol set includes all trial subjects who were essentially treated according to       protocol (i.e. who have been cardioverted as assigned) and for whom the primary target       variables "occurrence of severe lead and device impairment" and "restoration of normal sinus       rhythm" could be determined based on complete and meaningful documentation.        In a non-inferiority trial there are special issues in the choice of primary analysis set.       Conservatism or anticonversatism of the ITT or PP analysis depends on various factors as type       of protocol deviation and missingness, and the method of handling missing data in ITT       population (see Sanchez MM, Chen X. Choosing the analysis population in non-inferiority       studies: per protocol or intent-to-treat. Stat Med. 25, 1169-81;2006). Due to our setting       (randomization immediately before intervention, allowance for cross-over from internal to       external CV, intervention in hospital setting) we do not expect a relevant amount of protocol       violations. As the follow-up period of 2 weeks is short, we expect <1% losses to follow-up.       So we assume only minor discrepancies between ITT and PP population.        We do not expect any missing data for the primary efficacy endpoint, as it is measured       immediately after CV. The primary safety endpoint is measured within two weeks after CV, and       we do not expect non-trivial missingness such as dropout due to lack of efficacy. As the       expected number of events for the primary safety endpoint is low, especially for internal CV       patients, any method of handling of missing data in ITT analysis may cause relevant bias.       Thus, the per-protocol set is considered the primary analysis population; the ITT analysis is       treated secondary/supportive and should lead to similar conclusions. Patients without any       valid data on the primary target variables will be excluded from the FAS (modified ITT), in       case of missing data on safety endpoint the valid value will be used. In a sensitivity       analysis a conservative scenario will be performed treating missing values as event in       external CV group and as no event in internal CV group. Any relevant discrepancies in       drop-out rates between CV groups will be discussed.        Outcome data and data analysis In case of cross-over from internal to external CV the primary       endpoints will be assessed after internal shock. Patient's death during intervention or       within the follow-up period is unlikely and not to be expected. In the case of patient death       during intervention, after the shock, the primary efficacy endpoint will be treated as       failure. In the case of a patient death during intervention, after the shock or during follow       up, the primary safety value will be counted as failure/severe device or lead impairment.       This may be revised after the cause of death was proven not to be lead or device associated       by interrogation and analysis by the manufacturer.        Stratification by study center is not feasible due to the low number of expected events, and       subgroup analyses by study center will be done for descriptive reasons only.        Duration and study size This study is a multicenter trial. Additional local ethics       application is required at each center.        For the primary safety endpoint "severe lead and device impairment" we expect an incidence of       10% in the external CV group and of 5% in the internal CV group. Thus, for one-sided alpha       5%, non-inferiority margin of 15%, and power 80%, a sample size of 103 patients per arm, i.e.       206 in total, is required. To account for loss to follow-up (<1% within 2 weeks after CV) and       heterogeneity between centers, 230 patients (≈206/(1-0.05)^2) (see Donner, A. Approaches to       sample size estimation in the design of clinical trials--a review. Stat Med 3, 199-214;1984)       will be randomized. A non-inferiority margin of 15% is large, however, we chose several       endpoints acting as sensitive surrogates of possible or temporary lead affectation, rather       than relying solely on hard endpoints such as permanent lead or device failure with necessity       of surgical revision.        As no data on placebo-controlled trials exists in the setting of ICD trials to determine the       non-inferiority margin on statistical grounds, the margin was chosen on clinically as well as       practicality grounds. A relevantly smaller alpha or tighter margin would lead to an       unachievable sample size and render the trial unfeasible (see D'Agostino, R. B., Massaro, J.       M. & Sullivan, L. M. Non-inferiority trials: design concepts and issues - the encounters of       academic consultants in statistics. Stat Med 22, 169-186;2003).        Of note, to detect an absolute risk reduction of 20% in the primary efficacy endpoint       "restoration of normal sinus rhythm", assuming an incidence of 90% in the external CV group       and 70% in the internal CV group, a sample size of 72 patients per arm, i.e. 144 in total, is       required (two-sided alpha 5%, power 80%, continuity corrected chi-squared test). Sample size       determination was performed with ADDPLAN™ 6.0.        Description of trial subject groups At baseline (i.e. before CV) treatment groups will be       described and compared using mean, standard deviation and percentiles (0, 25, 50, 75, 100)       for continuous variables, count and percentage for categorical variables. Variables to be       summarized include among other sex, age, BMI, comorbidities, type of device, site of       implantation, LV ejection fraction, type of anticoagulation, duration of arrhythmia, left       atrial diameter, pacing threshold, lead impedance, shock impedance, ventricular and       biventricular pacing percentage, battery voltage.        Primary safety endpoint The primary hypothesis "non-inferiority of external CV to internal       CV" regarding the primary safety endpoint "severe lead and device impairment" will be       evaluated using the confidence interval (CI) approach. A one-sided 95% CI for the difference       "observed proportion in external group - observed proportion in internal group" will be       calculated by Newcombe's method 10 and non-inferiority is declared to be shown at one-sided       level 5% if its upper bound lies below the non-inferiority bound of 15%.        Primary efficacy endpoint If non-inferiority regarding the primary safety endpoint "severe       lead and device impairment" could be demonstrated, the hypothesis "superiority of external CV       to internal CV" regarding the primary efficacy endpoint "restoration of normal sinus rhythm"       will be tested in a confirmatory way at two-sided level 5%. Due to the fixed sequence of       these two hypotheses, the type I error is not inflated. The proportion of the primary       efficacy endpoint will be compared between treatment groups by Fisher's exact test with       two-sided 95% CI calculated by Newcombe's method 10.        Secondary endpoints The components of the primary safety endpoint (i.e. a rise in threshold       (at constant duration) of >0.5V, exit block, loss of programming, rise in shock impedance by       50%, rise in charge time by 50%, drop in battery voltage of ≥0.2V within 2 weeks) will be       analyzed along the same line as the composite.        Moreover, recurrence of atrial arrhythmia at FU, lead impedance and sensing changes,       inadvertent induction of VF during CV, high-sensitive Troponin T level 3h after CV will be       summarized by treatment group and compared by statistical hypothesis tests as applicable;       confidence intervals for treatment differences/effect sizes will be calculated to aid       interpretation.        Subgroup analysis        A subanalysis of predefined subgroups will be performed for:          -  CRT-D patients to assess safety of external CV in pts with LV leads.          -  CRT-D patients with quadripolar leads (including thresholds for all 16 pacing vectors)          -  CRT-D patients with AV-VV optimization algorithms        Safety and suspension/termination criteria Based on published data and own previous work 10       an interim safety analysis will be performed after 50% of target sample size, i.e. 115 pts,       have been included. A statistically significant difference in the primary safety endpoint       between the groups at interim analysis will lead to a subsequent early termination of the       trial (using Fisher's exact test, two-sided level 5%).        Specific termination criteria:          -  Significant difference in primary safety endpoint at interim analysis          -  Induction of VF in internal CV group n > 3
Patients with either brady arrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, heart failure or primary prevention       of sudden death receive a cardiac implantable electronic device (CIED) as a standard of care       based on guideline indications. All implants require X-ray equipment to visualize the       advancement and positioning of leads in different heart chambers. To date only anecdotical       cases have been reported in the literature, of implants without fluoroscopy, mostly pregnant       patients with a CIED indication that could not wait for implant after delivery or some rare       situations where ultrasound was used to guide the leads trough the heart.        There are two reported experiences using St-Jude Abbot 3-D NavX system; where 35 (ICD and       pacemakers) and 15 (VVI pacemakers only) CIED patients were respectively approached with       times reported to right ventricular lead implant of 18 +/- 22 minutes and atrial lead implant       of 16 +/- 9 minutes, in 89% of cases a final fluoroscopy shot was deemed necessary (in 16% of       patients it was needed to correct final position); in the second report with VVI only       pacemakers, the implant of a single lead was 10.1 +/- 5.4 minutes, and the total procedure       duration was 59.3 +/- 15.16 minutes -one patient needed fluoroscopy-, this last cohort was       compared to previous 15 VVI pacemaker patients implanted under fluoroscopy, with control       times of 51.5 +/- 12.3 minutes6 (p=ns); both studies reported around 10 minutes needed to       obtain right chamber anatomies. There is a little more experience on biventricular implants       with two reports one single center and then the same Italian group with a multicenter study       achieving a significant reduction in fluoroscopy times: from 16 minutes to 4 minutes (ranges       from 11-26 to 0.3-10.4 minutes) compared with a historical control, and with the same success       rates to left lead implants; even in experienced centers (more than 10 previous implants) the       median time was 3 minutes of fluoroscopy when a St-Jude Abbot NavX system was used.        The advancement on 3-D mapping systems, allows nowadays to reduce and even eliminate the need       of X-rays for most of ablation procedures, where the catheters advancement, positioning and       navigation through the four heart chambers is accomplished with minimal or no irradiation to       the patients and to the health care personnel.        The hypothesis is that use of standard 3-D mapping systems to achieve CIED implants is       feasible, safe, and that could be accomplished in a time efficient way. This will be the       first large report for all type of CIED implants and with all available 3-D mapping system       utilization; the investigators will try also to define if a complete reconstructed virtual       anatomy is needed of if a rough anatomy is sufficient to achieve the implant, and speed       procedure times.
This is a cross-sectional, observational, multicenter, and prospective study Eligible       patients will be included during their usual medical check-up. As recommended by guidelines,       patients with single ventricle have an 2D echocardiography and a CPET annualy. Data required       for this study will be collected from patient medical record.        3D echography data acquisition will be performed using 2D ultrasound post-processing by       TOMTEC software. No supplementary visit, directly related to the research, will be necessary.       This study does not change the usual care management of the patient.
nan
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is extremely aggressive and is the 4th most frequent       tumor-related cause of death in the Western world. The one-year survival rate is 20 percent       and the 5-year overall survival rate is only 5 percent. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma       often become symptomatic at very advanced stages with only 15 to 20 percent of patients being       able to undergo a therapeutic local resection. Patients who do not meet the criteria for       local consolidative resection may either have advanced locoregional disease and/or distant       metastases. Advanced locoregional pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma without metastatic disease       has a survival rate of 6 to 12 months. Those with distant metastases have a survival rate of       only 3 to 6 months.        Locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma is defined by the involvement of the superior       mesenteric artery, the celiac axis, and/or long segment portal vein occlusion on       cross-sectional imaging. Resectable tumors will be free from the superior mesenteric vein,       superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis, with no nodal involvement outside of the area of       resection. Unresectable disease will have occlusion, thrombosis or encasement that extends       for several centimeters of superior mesenteric vein and portal vein. Tumor abutment,       encasement or thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery is also considered unresectable       disease. Involvement of lymph nodes outside of the area of resection also indicates that the       patient is not resectable.        For patients who have unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, chemotherapy and       radiation can only provide short-term disease control. Chemotherapy and radiation regimens       have not been shown to prolong survival significantly in this disease, and therefore, there       is a need for additional adjunctive or consolidative treatment to provide improved local       control, pain relief and possibly impact survival. Image guided ablation technique like       irreversible electroporation has shown promise as a new treatment option for patients with       stage III locally advanced pancreatic cancer.        A unique advantage of Nanoknife is that it does not require heat to ablate tumor cells,       rather it works by using high voltage but low energy direct current. The process in which low       energy direct current ablates tissue is called irreversible electroporation. In order to       understand how this process works, the investigators have to understand some background cell       biology. The cell membrane separates the intracellular space and the extracellular       space/fluid, and controls transport processes between the two compartments of the cell.       Electroporation increases cell membrane permeability by subjecting it to an electrical field       and uses rapid series of short electrical pulses delivered using high voltage but low energy       direct current to create defects (pores) in the cell membrane that result in loss of       homeostasis and cell death. The result is a well demarcated area of ablation. The Nanoknife       system comes with 19 gauge needles that have depth markings. The needle surface is echogenic.       The active electrode length is adjustable in 0.5 cm increments from zero to 4 cm. There is an       external electrocardiogram synchronization device that automatically detects the R wave and       energy is delivered synchronously to the R wave. The electrodes can be arranged in multiple       configurations using two to six electrodes. The spacing between the electrodes can be from       0.5 cm to 2.0 cm, and electrode exposure can be from 0.5 cm to 4.0 cm. Energy is delivered       between the electrode pairs, and this results in an area of ablated tissue.        Nanoknife is particularly useful in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma because of       the proximity of pancreatic tumors to critical surrounding structures such as bile ducts and       major blood vessels. Because it does not use heat to ablate tissue (which induces necrosis)       but rather uses cell apoptosis, it theoretically has no impact on the surrounding structures       that mainly consist of proteins like vascular elastic and collagenous structures as well as       peri-cellular matrix proteins (protecting large blood vessels and bile ducts). Further study       of Nanoknife is needed to see if this therapy can potentially impact survival and/or provide       adequate local palliation to improve quality of life in patients with locally advanced       unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
nan
nan
Condition of Approval study for cardiac resynchronization therapy with pacemakers, and for       the Attain left ventricular leads 2187, 2188, 4193, and 4194.
nan
Purpose and aims        The overall purpose of our study is to examine the benefit of general beta-blocker therapy on       important patient-oriented measures in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Our       primary aim is to examine if treatment with beta-blockers in patients with COPD and no       comorbid heart disease at baseline can prevent hospitalizations due to cardiovascular       diseases, COPD exacerbations and death.        Background        In patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and concomitant cardiovascular       conditions cardio-selective beta-blockers reduce mortality and can be used without       significant negative effects on lung function or respiratory symptoms. Observational studies       indicate that beta-blocker therapy in COPD even without overt cardiovascular disease, is       associated with reduced risk for mortality and COPD exacerbations.        Research questions        Primary: Does treatment with metoprolol at an aimed dose of 100 mg in addition to standard       care statistically significantly decrease the one year rate of a composite measure of death,       COPD exacerbations or hospitalization due to a cardiovascular event, in patients with COPD       and no cardiovascular disease at baseline? Secondary: Does treatment with metoprolol at an       aimed dose of 100 mg in addition to standard care: -decrease the one year rate of a death       (all-cause and cause-specific), in patients with COPD and no cardiovascular disease at       baseline? -decrease the one year rate of exacerbations, in patients with COPD and no       cardiovascular disease at baseline? -decrease the one year rate of hospitalization for       myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, heart failure, atrial fibrillation or other forms of       arrhythmia, stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA) or cerebral hemorrhage in patients with       COPD and no cardiovascular disease at baseline?        Study design        This is a randomized controlled clinical trial (RCCT) with a pragmatic approach, i.e. a study       characterized by a minimized number of inclusion and exclusion criteria, a reduced number of       follow-up visits, a reduced complexity at the visits, and an intervention that is additional       to standard care but with no placebo control (Figure 1). Invitation letters are sent to all       patients, managed at the Department of Respiratory Medicine at Orebro University Hospital or       primary health care centers in Region Orebro County, with a doctor´s diagnosis of COPD, no       International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes for cardiovascular diseases and no       present beta-blocker therapy.        Inclusion and follow-up will take place at the Clinical Research Support Center in Orebro. In       addition, several other Swedish centers for clinical trials have accepted to take part in the       study.        The intervention with metoprolol at an aimed dose of 100 mg is prescribed electronically       through the ordinary record system, and with financial burdening of the project unless the       patient is already part of the high-cost protection for medication. A total of 1700 patients       will be randomized to standard care or intervention.        Estimated sample size and statistical power        Sample size is calculated on the basis of: 1) an estimated overall 1-year risk of death of 1%       in this mixed cohort of patients with various stages of COPD, 2) a 1-year risk for COPD       exacerbations of 20% and 3) a 1-year risk of myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation,       other arrhythmias, heart failure, stroke, TIA or cerebral hemorrhage leading to       hospitalization of 2%. The combined 1-year primary endpoint is estimated at 23% (expected       survival probability of 0.77) for individuals randomized to usual standard care. With a 5%       two-sided alpha level and statistical power set to 80%, 763 patients in each group (total       n=1526) is needed to detect a 25% reduction of the primary endpoint in the beta blocker       group, corresponding to a hazard ratio of 0.75. In order to control for dropouts and crossing       from one group to the other 1700 patients will be included.        Statistical analysis plan        Analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle. Differences between groups in the       time-to-event-end points will be assessed using the log-rank test, Kaplan-Meier methodology       and Cox proportional hazard model. Differences between study groups will be assessed with       unpaired t-tests on original scale or log scale as appropriate. Ordinal variables will be       assessed with chi-2 test for trend or Mann-Whitney U test, and Pearson's chi-square test or       Fisher's exact test will be used to test differences between proportions. Subgroup analyses       will be carried out for patients with a resting heart rate of <80 vs. ≥80 beats per minute.        Randomization procedure and and study data base        Following written informed consent randomization is performed with a 1:1 allocation using the       Smart Trial system web page. A study data base with all patients included in the study will       be generated within the Smart-Trial system. The patients' identity will always be       confidential.        Monitoring        In accordance with the principles of International Council for Harmonisation of Technical       Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use - Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP), monitoring       of the study will be arranged by the Sponsor and occur on site before, during and after the       trail. During the study, monitors will have regular contacts with the study site to ensure       that the study is conducted and documented properly in compliance with the protocol, Standard       Operating Procedures (SOPs), ICH-GCP and applicable regulatory requirements.        The number of monitoring visits will occur throughout the trial. The main part of the       monitoring will be centralized by regular checks of the data quality in the database. The       monitors will review source documents for verification of consistency with the study data       recorded in an electronic case report form (eCRF) according to risk based monitoring.       Investigators and other responsible personnel must be available during the monitoring visits,       possible audits and inspections and should devote sufficient time to these processes.        Ethical considerations        The study will be conducted in accordance with the protocol, applicable regulatory       requirements such as and the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki as adopted by       the 18th World Medical Assembly in Helsinki, Finland, in 1964 and subsequent versions. The       study is approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board of Uppsala, Sweden (DNr 2017-210B) and       the Swedish Medical Products Agency (EudraCT no: 2017-001507-76).        Reporting procedures for Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE)        Only AE and SAE that are not considered as signs and symptoms expected and related to the       endpoints or known side effects from the study drug will be reported in this study. Events       defined as endpoints in the study (e.g. all-cause death, (cardiovascular events requiring       hospitalization or COPD exacerbations) will not be reported as AE. This means that other       clinical signs and symptoms, which are reported by the patient and observed by the       investigator, and in the opinion of the investigator are unexpected in relation to actual       diagnosis, will be reported.        Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Event (SUSAR) reporting procedure        If the responsible investigator judges the SAE as being drug-related and unexpected (SUSAR)       the event must be reported to the sponsor within one working day. SUSARs will be reported       using the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) form       (http://www.cioms.ch/index.php/cioms-form-i) which will be sent to the Medical Products       Agency, since sponsor is not able to report electronically to the EudraVigilance database.       The sponsor is responsible for information to all involved investigators in the study.        Annual report        A safety report, including assessment of overall safety and all reported SUSARs will be       submitted yearly to the Regulatory Authorities and if requested to the Ethics Committee.
Objective:        The objective of this protocol is to provide DBS surgery and to collect physiology and       efficacy data related to DBS therapy and motor and cognitive function in people with       medically refractory Parkinson s disease (PD), dystonia, and essential tremor (ET). All       treatment under this protocol will be based on the current standard of care for DBS surgery.        Study Population:        Patients 18 years and older with medically refractory PD, dystonia and/or ET may participate       in this study.        Study Design        The treatment that is rendered in this protocol is standard of care for PD, dystonia, and ET.       Patients confirmed to have medically refractory PD, dystonia or ET will be offered DBS. The       therapeutic goal of this procedure is to implant chronically stimulating macroelectrodes in       the basal ganglia or thalamic nuclei in order to alleviate the symptoms of PD, dystonia or       ET. Pre- and post-operative imaging will be used to precisely localize electrode locations       within the brain and will be correlated with measures of clinical efficacy and recorded       intra-operative neural activity. Intra-operative microelectrode recordings, as well as micro-       and macroelectrode electrical stimulation, will be used to confirm positioning of electrode       leads. Intra-operative electrode recordings will also be used to investigate the       neurophysiological mechanisms of deep brain stimulation and to explore the neural circuits       underlying motor and cognitive processing in the basal ganglia. Intraoperative physiology       will be used for clinical and research purposes. Patients will be followed for 3 months after       the surgical procedure to determine effectiveness of DBS treatment.        Outcome Measures:        The primary goal of this protocol is to determine the physiology and efficacy of DBS surgery       for movement disorders. Efficacy outcome measures include the change in motor symptoms, as       measured by the UPDRS III scale, the Burke-Fahn-Marsden (BFM) dystonia rating scale, and the       Tremor Rating Scale before and 3 months after treatment. Secondary measures include 1) levels       of effective drug therapy before and after surgery; 2) change in behavior and performance of       activities of daily living; 3) complications of therapy as measured by the UPDRS I, II, and       IV scales before and after surgery and the SF-12 score; 4) radiographic correlation of DBS       electrode position and clinical changes; and 5) neurophysiological mechanisms of DBS and       motor and cognitive function in the basal ganglia.
1. On the day before surgery the participant will be shown 10 objects that he should            remember. On the day after surgery he will be requested to recall the objects he            remembers and to answer the level of anxiety he is feeling using the Visual Anxiety            Scale.          2. In the event of discharges (a possible side effect of ketamine due to muscarinic /            parasympathetic stimulation), a single dose of scopolamine (1 mg - ) will be given            intravenously.          3. At the end of the surgical phase of opening (of the same side being operated on) the            propopol will be discontinued (as routinely done), and a continuous low-dose ketamine            infusion (0.25 mg per kilogram per hour) will be given until the permanent electrode is            implanted on the same operated side, or in the event that unwanted side effects that            can't be controlled appear.          4. During surgery, monitoring of muscle activity (EMG) and brain activity (EEG) will be            performed          5. During the operation a short canola will be inserted through the meningeal opening and            fixed to the surface of the cerebral cortex.             Through the cannula A 10 mm deep microelectrode will be inserted, which will record            electrical activity from the cerebral cortex for several minutes (up to 15 minutes).            During the recording period the patient may be asked to perform a simple cognitive task            using a computer or iPad. Following the recording the canola and the microelectrode will            be removed and the canola will be inserted to the depth of the brain as part of the            standard surgery and through it the microelectrode will be inserted into the brain            target, and recording of electrical activity from the depths of the brain, as is            customary will be performed. At the end of the ketamine phase, at the end of the            electrophysiological monitoring required for navigation, prior to the electrical            stimulation, when the electrode is placed at the bottom of the sub-thalamic nucleus, the            patient will be shown for 60 seconds 10 images of objects (a single object in each            image, different from the objects presented to him the day before) which he will asked            to remember. At the same time on the screen will present electrical recordings from the            depth of the brain (MER) by the brain electrode. In addition, the patient will be asked            grade the anxiety level he is experiencing using the Visual Anxiety Scale (VAS) .          6. On the day after surgery, the patient will be asked to recall which objects were            presented to him the day before the operation and during the operation. Note that the            two object lists will be from a database of objects used in functional day-to-day life            (standard lists used for the CMT test - contextual memory test). In addition, the            patient will be asked to answer a Visual Anxiety Scale (VAS) and the Iowa satisfaction            score questionnaire detailing the patients overall overall experience, mood and feelings            during surgery.             These assessments will be performed by a neuropsychologist and using a validated            questionnaire.          7. Two weeks surgery, the patient will be presented with pictures of various objects and            will be asked to recall which of them were presented before and during surgery. In            addition the patient will be requested to fill grade his VAS anxiety scale and the IOWA            questionnaire.
During this past decade, there has been a dramatic surge in interest in new physiologic       pacing strategies which engage and take advantage of the intrinsic cardiac conduction system.       These approaches include His bundle pacing (HBP) as well as approaches which seek to pace the       proximal left conduction system (LCS), including left bundle branch area pacing (LBBAP) or       pacing in the region of the left posterior fascicle. Left ventricular septal pacing (LVS) has       also been proposed as another means to avoid dyssynchrony with early data suggestive of       comparable electrical synchronization as biventricular pacing. These approaches utilize       approved pacing systems and leads which are delivered to new targets in the His-Purkinje       system or LV endocardial fibers. Despite the growing interest in HBP, LCS, and LVS, the       majority of data are from disparate cohort studies and there has been a lack of uniformity in       assembling data or analyzing and interpreting outcomes.        The goal of the Conduction System Pacing International Registry (CONSPIRE) is to       systematically and prospectively collect data across multiple centers of excellence on the       early implementation of permanent conduction system pacing devices in order to characterize       strengths and limitations of current technology. The study will evaluate patient selection,       intraprocedural characteristics, and clinical outcomes among patients receiving conduction       system pacing (CSP) as part of their routine clinical care.
nan
One of the strongest clinical associations with autoantibodies directed to components of the       Ro/La ribonucleoprotein complex is the development of congenital heart block (CHB) in an       offspring, an alarming prospect facing 2% of primigravid mothers with these reactivities. The       risk is 10-fold higher in women who have had a previously affected child. Despite the attempt       of large multicenter studies to forestall disease by serial in utero monitoring, irreversible       block and extensive myocardial injury have been documented within 7 days of a normal rhythm       and PR interval. CHB is associated with a substantial mortality and morbidity. Two recent       prospective studies (20 mothers from U.S. and 15 from Europe) utilizing an identical protocol       of IVIG at replacement doses demonstrated 1) this intervention does not prevent the       recurrence of CHB 2) the recurrence rate of 17-18% is robust 3) recruitment of patients is       feasible. During the time period of the IVIG trials, basic science exploring the pathogenesis       of disease supported the notion that Toll Like Receptor (TLR) signaling following ligation of       ssRNA (hY3) complexed to the Ro protein contributes to fibrosis. This observation led to in       vitro studies addressing inhibition of endosomal acidification by chloroquine and subsequent       translation to patients by evaluating the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in an extensive       retrospective chart review. The combined data suggest efficacy of HCQ. Accordingly, the goal       of this study is to: To determine whether hydroxychloroquine use during pregnancy prevents       CHB in a high risk population. The trial is open-label and employs the Simon's 2-stage       optimal design to allow for early stopping due to absence of treatment efficacy. The first       stage requires 19 subjects. Despite the rarity of disease and the requirement of a previous       CHB child, based on the US Research Registry for Neonatal Lupus, this proposal is feasible.       If 3 or more mothers have a child with 2nd or 3rd degree CHB, the study is terminated after       the first stage. If this does not occur, funds will be sought to enroll an additional 35       mothers in the second stage for a total of 54 subjects. Treatment will be considered       efficacious if fewer than 6 mothers of 54 have a child with advanced CHB. With this design,       the study has 90% power to conclude that hydroxychloroquine is preventive if the true       recurrence rate with the treatment is 5%. In addition, the probability of rejecting the       treatment for further study is 95% if the true recurrence rate is 18%. Serial echocardiograms       (monitor PR interval) and blood drawing (IFNƒÑƒnsignatures, antibody titers) will be included       in the protocol. The results of this study are expected to become an integral part of the       counseling of women with anti-SSA/Ro-SSB/La antibodies who are considering pregnancy.
Sustained, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) is most commonly encountered in patients       with structural heart disease, usually with ischemic aetiology. It has been proven that       repeated episodes of sustained VT contribute to the mortality of patients with structural       heart disease. These patients are usually implanted with implantable cardioverter       defibrillator without (ICD) or with cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT-D) as part of       sudden cardiac death (SCD) prevention and have had activation of the device due to the       sustained VT episodes. According to the current guidelines 3D mapping with radiofrequency       (RF) ablation of the tachycardia substrate is an established therapeutic option. As part of       the clinical follow-up of patients implanted with cardiac implantable electronic devices       (CIED), including ICDs and CRT-Ds, function parameters are monitored every 6 months. The same       check-up is done before and after any procedure involving RF ablation. Furthermore, a       transient drop of R wave sensing has been demonstrated after the RF ablation of the       atrioventricular (AV) node in patients with uncontrollable fast atrial fibrillation implanted       with single-chamber pacemakers. The above mentioned have not been studied yet in patients       ablated due to sustained VT. Hence, the aim of this study is to assess the change in R wave       sensing after the RF ablation of VT substrate in patients with structural heart disease.        This study will be performed as a clinical, prospective, multi-centre, observational       (analytic, longitudinal) cohort study with patient enrolment in 4 electrophysiology centres       in Croatia and Switzerland and a structured follow-up period of 12 months.        All consecutive patients with sustained VT implanted with ICD or CRT-D undergoing RF ablation       procedure of myocardial substrate, who are able to understand and sign informed consent, will       be enrolled.        Exclusion criteria:          -  Patients with combined mechanical aortic and mitral valve prostheses          -  Patients with RF ablation of VT done in the last 12 months          -  Patients with known damaged ICD/CRT-D electrode or battery          -  Patients undergoing VT ablation who have not been implanted with ICD or CRT-D          -  Patients not willing or able to undergo clinical follow-up of ICD/CRT-D device          -  Patients with life expectancy < 1 year          -  Not able to understand or willing to sign informed consent          -  Age < 18 years Primary objective is a R wave sensing drop > 30% after VT substrate            ablation procedure.        Specific (secondary) end-points:          -  incidence of VT recurrence after the ablation procedure;          -  risk factors for R wave sensing drop (> 30%) after the RF ablation of VT substrate;          -  time needed for R wave sensing recovery after the RF ablation procedure. Recruiting            should not exceed 12 months with the minimal follow-up period of 12 months (24 months in            total).        The risk categorisation of the study was done and the study was awarded a risk category A.        Sample size was chosen according to annual procedure volumes in Croatia and Switzerland. In       addition, it is confirmed by power test (number needed to recruit: 52). Recruiting should not       exceed 12 months. Categorical variables will be presented by contingency tables in absolute       values and percentages. Categorical variables will be compared by the chi-square with Yates       corrections or Fisher's exact test. Continuous data will be expressed as means and standard       deviations or median with corresponding interquartile range. The differences in quantitative       variables will be tested by Mann-Whitney U-test (non-parametric test for independent       samples). Logistic regression will be used to analyse the association between all variables       of interest and the R wave sensing drop. Multivariate logistic regression will be used to       adjust for confounding factors. Predictors of the R wave sensing drop will be assessed in a       univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards model. The statistical analysis will be       done using SPSS Software Version 22.0 or newer (IBM SPSS Statistics, New York, USA).        This unique study offers the possibility to show the impact of RF ablation on short-term and       long-term R wave sensing change assessed by ICD or CRT-D's ventricle electrode in patients       with sustained VT and structural heart disease undergoing ablation procedure. This       observational data is needed to further refine the treatment of these patients and to prevent       possible ICD/CRT-D dysfunction which could endanger this patient population. Despite a high       number of cohort registries for cardiovascular diseases (e.g. Danish heart registry,       ORBIT-AF, GARFIELD AF registry, Swiss AF registry), there are scarce data on patients with       structural VT and no data regarding R wave sensing changes influenced by RF energy       application in ventricles. In addition, this could influence obligatory rhythm-monitoring       duration and consequently hospitalization duration of patients with VT undergoing RF ablation       procedures. Apart from the above mentioned, in those patients with non-optimal preprocedural       R wave sensing, this could mean contraindication for procedure or having the need to do       postprocedural defibrillation testing. It is likely, that data from our study will lead to       future changes in periprocedural planning and modalities.        This study will be conducted in compliance with the current version of the Declaration of       Helsinki, the ICH-GCP or ISO EN 14155 (as far as applicable) as well as all national legal       and regulatory requirements. According to ethical regulations, the study plan with the       proposed participant information and consent form as well as other project-specific documents       will be submitted to Ethic committee of the participating centres.
nan
This is a 3-year open-label multicentre randomised controlled trial assessing arrhythmia       burden in patients with Fabry cardiac disease. This is an observational study, but with       implantable loop recorder (ILR) insertion at recruitment and removal at end of trial for the       intervention arm.        Null hypothesis: There will be no difference in the identification of arrhythmia between       patients following standard care compared to patients following standard care but with the       addition of ILR monitoring.        Beyond the proposed hypothesis, data collected will be used to inform whether ILR in FD will:          1. Reveal a high burden of unrecognised arrhythmia          2. Lead to frequent treatment modification (anti-coagulation, pacemaker and ICD            implantation, ablation)          3. Enable the development of FD specific risk prediction algorithms          4. Identify predictive power of new (Troponin, BNP, lysoGB3, T1 and T2 mapping) and            traditional biomarkers
nan
Being able to accurately monitor patient bodily fluid levels during and after surgery is very       important, as there are a number of complications that can arise if a patient's fluid levels       become unbalanced, such as swelling within or pressure on various bodily organ systems. There       are several different ways that physicians can monitor a patient's fluid balance during and       after surgery, such as measuring the amount of urine output or the use of central venous       catheters which measure the pressure in the veins entering the heart. Most of these       techniques are invasive since they require tubes to be inserted into the body. A potential       alternative would be to use a noninvasive technique such as electrical bioimpedance (BIA).        Bioimpedance assessments work by using small electrical currents that can accurately predict       both the water surrounding the outside of cells in the body, as well as the total amount of       water in the entire body. Electrical bioimpedance assessments have been used to estimate       patient swelling following surgery (edema), to measure the volume of blood the heart is       pumping out, as well as to calculate body fat percentages.        The goal of this study is to relate this technology to fluid shifts within the body that       occur as a result of surgery, in particular, major intra-abdominal surgeries. By using       bioimpedance during and after surgery, the investigators will compare the data collected with       that calculated by using traditional measures of body fluid status, such as urine output and       intraoperative blood loss. During the study, the bioimpedance monitors will not replace the       standard bodily fluid monitors and will not interfere with their readings. Additionally, the       electrical current produced by the bioimpedance monitors is too small for patients to feel       and will not interfere with medical devices such as pacemakers.
Up to one half of heart failure (HF) patients are overweight and obese, as measured by body       mass index (BMI). Comprehensive body composition assessment utilizing bioimpedance scales       wuch as Biospace America InBody 520 scale, can give accurate measurements of fat mass, lean       muscle mass, and edematous water weight. Body composition analysis is routinely used in many       clinical settings, including the Ahmanson-UCLA Cardiomyopathy Center. However, bioimpedance       scales are generally not used in patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators       (ICDs), a group that represents a majority of our HF patient population. The safety of InBody       520 technology - direct segmental multifrequency (5, 100, 500 KHz) bioimpedance analysis - in       patients with ICDs has not been formally evaluated. There is a theoretic concern that the ICD       may misinterpret the applied currents for a cardiac arrhythmia and possibly cause a discharge       from the ICD. However, there has been no documentation of any adverse events in patients with       ICDs using the InBody 520 or other bioimpedance scales. Furthermore, thoracic bioimpedance       analysis (BioZ ICG, 70 Khz) has been documented to be successfully utilized without adverse       effects in patients with HF and ICDs. This study will define the safety of using the InBody       520 scale for analysis of body composition in patients with ICD devices. Subjects with HF and       and ICD will have their ICD interrogated and continually monitored by an electrophysiologist       before, during, and after the 30-50 seconds of bioimpedance analysis, which involves standing       on the InBody 520 scale. If there is any suggestion of the ICD interpreting applied       frequencies as a cardiac arrhythmia, the patient will be removed from the scale and the       electrophysiologist will simultaneously temporarily deactivate their ICD device to prevent       discharge. Twenty subjects (from the following four ICD companies: Medtronic, St. Jude,       Guidant, and Biotronik) will participate in our study.
This prospective, open label, multi-center, observational, single arm registry is designed to       monitor the AtriCure Synergy Ablation System continued safety and efficacy during the       peri-procedural and long-term phase during commercial use in patients being treated for       non-paroxysmal forms of atrial fibrillation who are undergoing a concomitant open, on-pump       cardiac surgical procedure.
GOALS          1. General Check the effectiveness of physical therapy applied to the pelvic floor muscles            used as an adjunct to standard treatment (amitriptyline hydrochloride) on the            improvement of symptoms of vulvodynia.          2. Specific        Check and compare in women with vulvodynia before and after being randomly assigned to three       treatment arms (drug only drug associated with therapeutic exercise or medication associated       with electrotherapy with CI):          -  Pain during intercourse and during the swab test obtained by Visual Analogue Scale            (VAS);          -  The scores obtained in the questionnaire Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI);          -  The change in the volume of puborectal, pubococcygeus and iliococcygeal muscles accessed            through Tridimensional Ultrasound (US3D);          -  The variation of the perfusion of the pelvic floor muscles by pudendal artery obtained            by 3D ultrasound;          -  The effectiveness of therapeutic exercise in the improvement of vulvar pain to test swab            and sexual intercourse by penetration in women diagnosed with vulvodynia;          -  The effectiveness of electrical therapy with interferential current in the improvement            of vulvar pain to test swab and sexual intercourse by penetration of women diagnosed            with vulvodynia;          -  Compare the effectiveness of electrical therapy and kinesiotherapy in the improvement of            vulvar pain;          -  Compare the effectiveness of physical therapy as an adjunct to standard against standard            treatment alone.        SUBJECTS AND METHODS:          1. Study design:             clinical trial randomized controlled single-blind. Designed according to the CONSORT            standards, pending completion of the project after approval by Brazil Platform for final            implementation, scheduled for July 2016.          2. Sample size:             To calculate the sample size, we sought in literature studies addressing the main            variables to be analyzed in this study (FSFI score after physical therapy intervention            and medication versus medication, change in visual analog pain scale before and after            the intervention).             The study whose design and statistical analysis were closer than we propose in this            project was used to calculate the sample, and its purpose was to compare in women with            vulvodynia, the improvement in pain using the VAS pain and sexual function index using            the FSFI after undergoing sessions of transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS) (65).             Assuming type II alpha error probability equal to 0.05 and study of power equal to 80%,            and considering the average VAS score of 8 (± 3.4) and 2.2 (± 6.1), the sample size            calculation estimated using the Small software Stata 13.1 was n = 16 for each group,            totaling n = 48. However, as a study with follow-up two months and assuming loss of            follow-up of 20% of the total number of the sample, we assume a sampling size n = 58.          3. Variables and concepts:        3.1 Independent Variables Vulvodynia Characterized by present or absent, it is diagnosed by       the presence of vulvar pain sexual penetration or touch gynecological self-reported, burning       to light touch in the lobby (swab test [13]) and erythema. It can be classified as localized       or generalized.        3.2 Dependent Variables Muscle thickness - Measure cross the levator ani muscle given in       millimeters, obtained by 3D US in three situations: rest, maximum voluntary contraction and       Valsalva; Perfusion pudendal artery - blood flow of the pudendal artery, given in millimeters       per square centimeters (mm / cm2) obtained by 3D US.        Pain referred to the swab test - referred pain to perform the swab test, playing with a swab       certain points of the vulvar vestibule, pointed using the visual analog scale (VAS) ranging       from zero to 10, where ten is the highest grade concerning the higher pain threshold.        Pain said the vaginal penetration - mean referred pain during sexual intercourse with vaginal       penetration, pointed using the visual analog scale (VAS) ranging from zero to 10, where ten       is the maximum note to higher pain threshold.        FSFI - female sexual function index, as measured by the score obtained by the       self-administered questionnaire FSFI (Female Sexual Function Index), which proposes to       evaluate women's sexual response in the areas: desire, arousal, vaginal lubrication, orgasm,       sexual satisfaction and pain. Assesses the relative strength of each field of female sexual       response and transform subjective measures in objective, quantifiable and analyzable data.       Applied in therapeutic exercise before and after the program applied to the pelvic floor.        3.3 Control variables BMI: body mass index, obtained by dividing weight in kilograms by       height in meters squared. Categorized to assess the degree of obesity of an individual, it is       considered underweight when BMI <20; ideal weight BMI = 20 to 25; overweight BMI = 26 to 30;       moderate obesity BMI = 31 to 35; severe obesity BMI = 36 to 40; Morbid obesity BMI = 41 to       50; super obesity BMI> 50.        Gestation: number of times the respondent became pregnant, including abortions until the day       of the interview (self reported); Delivery type: delivery route number taken by the       respondent to the day of the interview, self reported, classified as: C-section; Forceps,       vaginal; Frequency of sex: number of sexual contacts per month in the last six months (self       reported); Number of sexual partners: number of partners in the last six months (self       reported); Frequency of physical activity: number of times a week practicing physical       activity on average in the last six months (self reported); Type of physical activity: type       of physical activity carried out in the last six months (self reported) classified as: (I)       strengthening (weight training, pilates class, functional training), (II) aerobic (walking,       running, swimming, cycling, wrestling) and / or (III) stretching (stretching classes, yoga);       (IV) sedentary.        Symptoms or pelvic floor dysfunction signs: self reported complaint by the patient in       relation to the perineum such as dyspareunia, dysuria, redness, cracking, itching, vaginal       flatus, urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence.        Treatment for vulvodynia used before kinesiotherapy: techniques and previously tested       therapies to reduce the nuisance caused by vulvodynia.        Drug name, time and amount of drugs administered during the period of participation in the       survey.        3.4 Descriptive Variables Age: elapsed time in years from the date of birth and date of the       first interview, said the participant. Given in ordinal numbers; Education: number of years       of study referred to by the subject. Given in ordinal numbers; Marital status: marital status       of the subject at the time of the study. Categorized in (I) with a steady partner and (II)       without a professional occupation; Skin color: skin color referred to by the subject.       Categorized into (I) White and (II) not white; Smoking: current smoking habit, self reported       by the interviewee, considering the options (I) yes or (II) not; Contraceptive methods that       are used by women in order to prevent conception, informed by the participant, categorized       into (I) male or female condom, (II) oral hormonal pill, (III) injectable hormonal       contraceptive (IV) ligation of the fallopian tubes (V) or levonorgestrel copper intrauterine       device (VI) rhythm, (VII) withdrawal, (VIII) and vasectomy (IX) other;        Subject Selection        Women who attend the outpatient genital infections and sexuality and are diagnosed with       vulvodynia will be invited to participate in this study. Will also be distributed informative       pamphlets on chronic vulvar pain and the methodology of this research in specialized clinics       vulvodynia, vulvodynia groups on the Internet and clinics where researchers involved in this       study attend. Women who agree to participate in the study aged over 18 years old will be       interviewed in order to meet the criteria for inclusion in the study (Appendix I). The       evaluation will be scheduled in the center of comprehensive care to women's health of Unicamp       (CAISM) in physiotherapy clinic to perform the steps of the research participation.        The volunteers will be randomized through a computer program in www.randomizer.org obtained       in three treatment arms: only amitriptyline, amitriptyline combined with kinesiotherapy       applied to the pelvic floor and electrical therapy associated with the amitriptyline.
Anemia (defined as a hemoglobin concentration below 13 g / dL in men and less than 12 g / dL       in women) is a condition frequently associated with heart failure (HF), and its prevalence is       estimated at around 4% to 50 %, depending on the study population and the adopted definition.        In general, anemia is associated with a greater presence of HF symptoms, worsening NYHA       functional class, higher rate of hospitalization for heart failure, and reduced survival.       However, it is unclear whether anemia is the cause of decreased survival or a marker for more       advanced disease.        The etiology of anemia is multifactorial, including reduced sensitivity to erythropoietin       receptors, presence of a hematopoiesis inhibitor and / or a defective iron supply for       erythropoiesis. There is growing evidence that iron availability may be reduced absolutely       due to decreased enteral iron absorption and / or occult hemorrhage, as well as in relative       form, resulting from the dysregulation of iron homeostasis and accumulation of iron in cells       of the reticuloendothelial system, characteristic of chronic disease anemia.        Recently, it has been suggested that iron deficiency itself may be an independent predictor       of outcome in HF.        Correction of iron deficiency in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II or       III HF using intravenous iron (Ferinject®) improved "overall patient self-assessment" and       NYHA functional class of 6-minute walk and health-related quality of life) in the FAIR-HF       trial. The treatment of patients with heart failure with mild to moderate anemia (hemoglobin       levels from 9.0 to 12.0 g / dL) with the erythropoietin analogue, darbepoetin alfa was       evaluated in the RED-HF trial (Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin Alfa in Heart Failure).       No differences in the primary end point of death from any cause or hospitalization due to HF,       or in the secondary outcome of cardiovascular death or time until the first hospitalization       due to HF. The absence of darbepoetin was consistent across all subgroups. Of relevant,       treatment with darbepoetin alfa led to an early increase (within one month) and sustained in       the hemoglobin level throughout the study. These RED-HF trial results suggest that the level       of hemoglobin, as well as other sub- stantial outcomes in HF, may be a prognostic marker,       with decreased levels correlated with a worse prognosis, rather than a therapeutic target of       HF.        A 2009 study tested the hypothesis of the association between anemia and HF severity, and the       outcome could be explained by the emptying of iron stores, particularly at the myocardium       level. This concept is based on previous experimental work showing that iron deficiency is       associated with progressive left ventricular dysfunction and cardiac fibrosis.        Although serum ferritin is clinically used to estimate body iron stores, it reports       approximately 1% of the total iron storage pool and its measurement can be confounded by a       number of conditions, such as inflammation, abnormal liver function, and ascorbic acid       deficiency. In contrast to serum ferritin, hepatic iron may serve as a better indicator of       serum iron; however, it does not reflect myocardial iron. Cardiac iron overload and related       toxicity may occur despite low hepatic iron concentrations.        Measurement of cardiac iron represented a major challenge to society. Endomyocardial biopsy       is highly risky and potentially imprecise due to the small sample size and the heterogeneous       deposition of cardiac iron. The introduction of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR)       provided a reliable measure of tissue iron and revolutionized our understanding and       management of iron-induced cardiomyopathy.        Iron, because is paramagnetic, can be quantified by Magnetic Resonance (MRI) in both the       liver and the heart through a method called T2 * (T2 "star"). Myocardial iron deposition can       be detected using myocardial T2 * and is the most important variable for predicting a need       for treatment for ventricular dysfunction in the context of iron overload (eg,       polytransfusion).        The clinically important iron load is defined as T2 * with values less than 20 ms, and is       considered serious if it is less than 10 ms.        In 2016, a study in Spain evaluated patients with heart failure (with or without anemia) and       their response to intravenous iron infusion. These patients, initially with mean T2* values       of 39.5 msec, were followed by Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (CMR) before and after iron       replacement with Ferric Carboxymaltose (Ferinject®) , obtaining at the end of the study,       improvement in ventricular function and increase in the myocardial iron load (T2 * mean of 32       msec ).        The aim of the present study was to evaluate the correlation between intravenous iron       replacement and increased intra-myocardial iron deposits and their effect on ventricular       function.        In the CMR, the global ventricular function, the iron load by the "T2 * method", the cardiac       "Strain" and the "Fat Water" of each patient will be analyzed. After this examination,       patients will undergo intravenous 1g of Ferric Carboxymaltose (Ferinject®).        A comparative analysis of the ejection fraction values at the beginning and at the end of the       study by CMR will be performed, in addition to a clinical reassessment, in which improvement       of dyspnea and tiredness are expected.        There will be laboratory reassessment of ferritin and transferrin saturation to monitor       treatment.
nan
nan
-  Place of study: General Hospital of the State of Sonora "Dr. Ernesto Ramos Bours" in the            city of Hermosillo, Sonora.          -  Sociodemographic and symptomatological information questionnaire: Questionnaires will be            applied to each participant, which will allow to obtain information of their occupation,            residence, date of birth, their own medical and family history, as well as typical            symptoms of the diseases.          -  Weight: The weight will be measured with a SECA Model 813 Portable Floor Scale. The            person should wear light clothing, empty pockets, without shoes, accessories (belts,            necklaces, watches, etc.); In a firm position, facing forward, without movement at the            time of taking the measurement. Weight measurement should be the simplest and most            accurate of anthropometric measurements, the balance should be calibrated periodically.          -  Height: The height will be measured with a portable stadiometer Model 217 SECA. The            participant is presented for the measurement of the height dressed with the minimum of            clothes, at least, without shoes and socks. The participant is instructed to stand on            the stadiometer so that his heels, gluteus, and shoulder blades are in contact with the            back plate, and the heels together. The head should be placed on the "Frankfurt Plane",            the head of the instrument will move down to make contact with the apex of the skull.            With the subject in the correct position, he is instructed: "take a deep breath and            stand tall". The height is measured at the point of inspiration without pressure being            applied.          -  Single-frequency bioimpedance (BIA): The BIA measurement will be performed according to            the established criteria by the National Institute of Health Technology Assessment            Conference Statement. The subject will be placed supine, with arms and legs separated            from the body and palms down. The electrodes will be located in the right extremities,            located on the back of the hand and foot near the phalangeal-metacarpal and            phalangeal-metatarsal joints and in the styloid process of the wrist and between the            medial and lateral malleolus of the ankle, through which an imperceptible electric            current will be introduced.        The subjects should be under the following conditions so that the study can be carried out:          -  Fast four hours before the measurement.          -  Not having consumed alcoholic beverages during the 48 hours prior to the test.          -  No strenuous exercise 24 hours prior to measurement.          -  In the case of women, do not menstruate.          -  Do not have any metal objects on the body.          -  The approximate measurement time is five minutes.               -  Vector analysis of electric bioimpedance (BIVA): The variables of resistance (R),                 Reactance (Xc) and size of each of the individuals measured to be plotted in the                 reference ellipses of the Mexican population by sex will be used. The R and Xc                 standardized by size (R / size and Xc / size) will be used to plot the vector of                 individuals within the percentiles 50, 75 and 95% of tolerance ellipses,                 differentiated by sex, using the BIVA program Software 2002.               -  Clinical assessment of dry weight and hemodialysis (HD) process: Based on the                 traditional practices of the Hospital dialysis unit, the physician / nurse will                 perform physical examination and interpret the signs and symptoms associated with                 the renal disease, these are blood pressure , heart rate, respiratory rate,                 temperature, presence of infection and edema. This will include present and past                 health-disease aspects, medications, as well as information on the patient's daily                 life. Upon arrival, the patient will be weighed according to the methodology                 described above. According to the traditional practice of the Hospital Dialysis                 Unit, the patient's target weight will be based on the difference between the                 post-dialysis weight of the last session and the current weight, in addition to                 taking into account the signs and symptoms Mentioned above, In order to determine                 the excess water of the patient.        The amount of fluid to be withdrawn to the patient, the ultrafiltration rate and the duration       time are determined by the nephrologist physician in consultation prior to the HD session.       Such information may be modified in the HD session depending on the clinical evaluation of       the patient on the day of treatment.        Before starting HD, the patient's vascular access is prepared with three alcohol times and       three times of 10% EXSEPT, and the clot is removed from the access.        The time, ultrafiltration rate and the amount of liquid to be filtered on the HD machine       (Fresenius Medical Care 4008 S - OCM Kt / V) are then programmed. Once programmed, it       connects To the patient and heparin is administered at an initial bolus and at each hour of       treatment. A total of 100 units per kg of body weight is given and the total is divided       between the initial bolus and each hour of treatment. The mechanism by which the HD machine       works is as follows: A pump directs the patient's blood to a filter of Polysulfone fibers,       blood runs up-down, while a dialysing solution (its content is similar to normal blood       plasma) flows in the opposite direction. By means of osmosis and the pressure exerted by the       filter, excess substances are removed from the patient's blood and, if any of the plasma       components are deficient, is absorbed from the dialysing solution. The blood is returned to       the patient and heparin is supplied at both catheter outlets to avoid coagulation. The       catheter is then sealed with a stopper and a patch is placed to prevent contact with the       outside medium. Finally, the vital signs are reviewed again and the appointment is scheduled       for the next treatment. In case the vital signs are altered, the patient is immediately       referred to the emergency department.          -  Laboratory parameters: Pre and post-dialysis patient blood samples will be taken to            analyze the following parameters: serum electrolytes, blood biometrics, blood chemistry            and Hepatic function. If feasible, the PCR will be analyzed.          -  Blood pressure: Blood pressure will be measured with an automatic monitor included in            the hemodialysis equipment (Fresenius Medical Care 4008 S - OCM Kt / V). To perform the            measurement, the patient has to be relaxed and seated comfortably, at a comfortable            ambient temperature. Do not bathe, drink alcohol or caffeine, smoke, exercise or eat 30            minutes before taking the measurement. The participants should sit in a chair with their            feet flat on the floor, the back straight and the arm band should be at the same level            as their heart with the palm up and relaxed. The nurse will start by palpating the arm            for the pulse of the brachial artery, where the diaphragm of the stethoscope will be            placed. This artery is located between the brachial and brachial biceps muscles; In its            lower-lateral path accompanies the median nerve. The bracelet should be placed to take            the measurement.Special considerations: - In patients with peripheral insertion of            central catheters, the upper arm should be avoided in which there is a central            peripheral insertion catheter. - In patients with a bypass Dialysis, or fistula, blood            pressure should be taken in the opposite arm if the patient has an arteriovenous            insertion or fistula necessary for dialysis, this is to avoid possible trauma or clot            formation.          -  Nutritional intervention: Patients will be made aware of the importance of adherence to            nutritional treatment through individualized sessions, addressing the following topics:            a) how to ensure adequate energy and protein intake, b) how to control fluid, sodium and            potassium intake, identifying foods rich in them, c) Incorrect feeding, d) food            preparation techniques, among others. Also, in each session, depending on the patient's            nutritional status, laboratory values and comorbidities, a personalized feeding guide            will be provided, which will include the foods to be consumed and in what quantities,            using the Mexican equivalents system for renal patients and the current Kidney Disease            Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) practice guidelines.          -  Malnutrition Inflammation Score (MIS), Bilbrey Index and subjective global assessment:            These are instruments that will be used to establish a Nutritional diagnosis of each            patient. Clinical, biochemical and anthropometric parameters are evaluated. Each of the            measurements will be made according to the current standardized methodology.
nan
nan
nan
nan
no additional description needed
nan
nan
Technical advances in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy       (MRS) have provided researchers with the opportunity to study functional and metabolic       changes of the central nervous system (CNS) in both normal individuals and individuals with       neurological diseases in response to sensory, motor or cognitive stimulation. New MRI and MRS       techniques specifically designed for Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and       Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging of the CNS will be evaluated at 1.5 and/or at 4.0       Tesla on normal volunteers and in patients with CNS pathology.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
The purpose of this protocol is to study the reproducibility of strain rate (SR)       echocardiography in normal volunteers and patients with cardiovascular disease. Tissue       Doppler ultrasound is a technology which has been validated for the analysis of global and       regional left ventricular function and strain and SR measurements are derived from tissue       Doppler imaging (TDI) data. Over the last few years, several improvements in echo machine       hardware and software have facilitated the rapid acquisition and analysis of tissue Doppler       data, and therefore, strain and strain rate information has become easily accessible. Recent       publications have demonstrated the usefulness of these techniques in the analysis of systolic       and diastolic function of the left ventricle, and in the detection of regional wall motion       and ischemia. Several protocols recently initiated in the Cardiovascular Branch involve       echocardiographic imaging and include applications of TDI as their primary or secondary       endpoints. Therefore, the purpose of this protocol is to allow development of standardized       acquisition and analysis methods of TDI for our cardiology protocols and to evaluate the       reproducibility of TDI, SR, and strain measurements.
nan
The management of critical situations is difficult for several reasons:          -  First, there is significant intra- and inter-individual variability in the            pharmacokinetics of NOACs, which is further heightened in the critical setting by drug            interactions with other agents that interfere with P-GLYCOPROTEIN (P-GP) and cytochrome            ( cytochrome P4503A4) in patients who are often elderly and multi medicated, and by            rapid variations in renal function, which is essential for elimination of NOACs.          -  Second, biological guidance is weak: there is no clearcut therapeutic range nor any            validated hemostatic safety cutoff, as is the case with the International Normalized            Ratio (INR) for VKAs. Conventional coagulation tests (PT/aPTT) are poorly standardized            and difficult to interpret. Assays to measure the serum concentrations of these drugs            are not widespread outside of a few teaching hospitals.          -  Third, there is a lack of clinical experience. Analyses of critical situations that            occurred during clinical trials were done after the fact and the data collected are            heterogeneous and incomplete. Clinical cases reported in the literature are rarely well            documented.        The objective of the observatory is to rapidly acquire documented and thorough feedback on       clinical experience with these new drugs that will be able to confer a higher level of       evidence to the management recommendations for treated patients.
nan
nan
Study design: Multi-center, prospective study Number of subjects: Up to 30 study duration: up       to 18 months Subject population: Subjects with moderate to severe Crohn's disease       demonstrating colon involvement who are indicated to undergo standard ileocolonoscopy as part       of their disease management        Study Design:          1. Each patient will undergo PillCam, procedure followed by conventional ileocolonoscopy            procedure with intubation of the terminal ileum          2. During the ileocolonoscopy procedure, the colonoscopist will document his findings            according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD score and the overall assessment in            the following segments:               1. Rectum               2. Left colon (including sigmoid)               3. Transverse colon               4. Right colon               5. Terminal ileum          3. Cleansing level for the ileocolonoscopy procedure will be assessed at each site          4. From each capsule endoscopy procedure two RAPID video versions will be generated and            segmented into segments          5. A committee composed of the study investigators will review all the RAPID video segments            and document their findings according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD, Lewis and            CECDAI scoring systems and an overall assessment          6. The parameters for each segment per each of the two RAPID movies will be compared and            the preferable video setup will be chosen          7. Final RAPID and colonoscopy movies will be de-identified in regards to patient and site            identity          8. The preferable full RAPID version will be reviewed by investigators which will document            their findings according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD scoring system and            overall assessment          9. cleansing level for the capsule procedure will be assess        The above evaluations per each subject will be within 24 from end of rocedure.
nan
Specific objectives:          1. To determine whether TL during early development, which is primarily reflected in muscle            TL, and LTL attrition during development, which is primarily expressed in the difference            between muscle TL and LTL, are associated with indices of arterial aging.          2. To examine the relation between EPC-TL to endothelial regenerative capacity and            endothelial function. In order to attain this objective the investigators will perform            two types of experiments:               -  Measure TL in progenitor cells and relate it to clinical phenotypes of arterial                 aging and atherosclerosis, as well as markers of endothelial dysfunction               -  Generate in vitro progenitor cells with different TL induced by the environmental                 factors (oxidative stress) and assess their phenotypes concerning inflammation and                 microvesiculation, in order to show a possible mechanistic relationship between TL                 in PC and the atherogenic and the regenerative capacities of these cells.        The project is composed of 6 tasks:        T1: Recruitment and sample collection (skeletal muscle, total blood) of 170 patients with       atherosclerosis and 170 controls. Performed by surgeons and cardiologists of Marseille and       Nancy University hospitals T2: Characterization of arterial aging in all patients (Geriatric       Dpt, Univ. hospital Nancy, Pr Benetos and AP-HM, Internal Medicine, Marseille, Dr Rossi) T3:       Characterization of early and late endothelial progenitor cells (EPC): laboratory of       hematology and vascular biology and in UMR_S1076 in Marseille (Prs Dignat-George and       Sabatier) T4: Measurements of TL in all samples (skeletal muscle, leukocytes and EPC):       UMR_S1116 Nancy (Dr Lacolley) in collaboration with Pr Aviv (University of Medicine of New       Jersey) T5: Characterization of inflammation markers in blood samples: UMR_S1116 and the       UMR_S1122 (Dr Siest-Visvikis, Nancy) T6: Database construction and statistical analyses       (UMR_S1116)        The results of this program could completely modify the present concept on the association       between TL and cardiovascular risk: Actually, if our concept of early determination of TL is       valid, therefore TL could be a true determinant of the arterial aging pace, through       limitation of repair capacity of cells.
nan
nan
The objective and tasks of the investigation.        The purpose of this study is to validate the efficacy and operational feasibility of a photic       countermeasure to improve alertness and performance during night shift work occurring during       a simulated expedition mission. We propose to address the following specific aims:        Specific Aim 1. Evaluate the feasibility of monitoring sleep and circadian neuroendocrine       rhythms in a high fidelity operational simulation of a 105-day expedition mission, in       preparation for such monitoring in longer duration simulations that include the 24.65-hour       Martian sol.        Specific Aim 2. Test the hypothesis that sleep, alertness, performance and mood will be       impaired during acute circadian misalignment associated with night shift work operations in a       high fidelity operational simulation of a 105-day expedition mission;        Specific Aim 3. Test the hypothesis that alertness, performance and mood of crewmembers       exposed to shorter wavelength light (with a peak wavelength between 485 to 525 nm) during the       night shift in the console monitoring room will be significantly better than the alertness,       performance and mood of those same crewmembers when they are exposed to intermediate       wavelength light (with a peak wavelength of either 545 nm to 555 nm) or longer wavelength       light (620 nm to 690 nm) during the night shift. We hypothesize that these improvements in       alertness, performance and mood will be associated with suppression of the pineal hormone       melatonin. Melatonin levels are expected to be lowest across the night shift during exposure       to the short 485 nm-525 nm light; low for the first quartile of the night shift during       exposure to the intermediate wavelength 545 nm-555 nm light; and highest during exposure to       the longer wavelength 620 nm-690 nm light. This aim will permit us to evaluate the       feasibility of deploying lighting countermeasures (Light Tower; Sunnex Biotechnologies       Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; ww.Sunnexbiotech.com) in the control panel room (inside the       module EU-150) to assess the effects of this wavelength of light on alertness, performance,       and subsequent sleep, in preparation for deploying lighting countermeasures in longer       duration simulations that include the 24.65-hour Martian sol. Subjects will be randomized to       the three lighting conditions using a balanced Latin square design.        Specific aim 4. Test the hypothesis that the alertness, performance and mood of the external       mission controllers will be impaired during the final third of their extended duration,       24-hour work shifts as compared with the first third of that same work shift. We anticipate       that the acute total sleep deprivation and circadian misalignment associated with hours 16       through 24 of their work shift will significantly degrade their alertness, performance and       mood.        Specific aim 5. Test the hypothesis that the alertness, performance and mood of external       mission controllers exposed to shorter wavelength light (with a peak wavelength between 485       to 525 nm) during the final third of their extended duration work shift will be significantly       better than the alertness, performance and mood of those same crewmembers when they are       exposed to intermediate wavelength light (with a peak wavelength of either 545 nm to 555 nm)       or longer wavelength light (620 nm to 690 nm) during the final third of their extended       duration work shift.        The purpose of the proposed studies is to address five specific hypotheses aimed at       validating methods to collect data to monitor performance, sleep and circadian rhythms in an       operational environment. We also plan to evaluate the efficacy of a photic countermeasure       designed to improve alertness, performance, mood during acute circadian misalignment during       the 105-day mission in which crewmembers will be required to be on duty in the console       monitoring room during the night shift every sixth night. These five hypotheses are based on       the results of our preliminary data which indicate that: (a) night shift workers who invert       their normal sleep/wake schedule experience sleep loss, decreased alertness and performance;       (b) individual working extended duration, 24-hour shifts experience sleep loss and impaired       alertness, performance and mood, especially during a critical zone of vulnerability between       the 16th and 24th hours of such extended duration work shifts; (c) shorter wavelength light       acutely suppresses melatonin and increases alertness, performance and mood during night work;       and (d) shorter wavelength visible light is more effective than intermediate or longer       wavelength light at suppressing melatonin and increasing alertness, performance and mood       during the night.
Objective: The purpose of this protocol is to characterize abnormalities in motoneuron       recruitment in adult patients with corticospinal tract dysfunction using electrophysiologic       measures. We wish to determine whether the intrinsic spinal mechanisms for recruitment are       abnormal or whether only inputs to motoneurons are changed. This information is pertinent for       assessing ways that can ultimately be used to enhance strength in patients with corticospinal       tract dysfunction using the existing spinal circuitry.        Study Design: Comparison of physiological observations in patients and age - matched control       subjects.        Study Population: Adults with spastic paresis aged 21-80 and healthy volunteers.        Outcome Parameters: Measures of motor unit firing in response to peripheral nerve stimulation       and transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Hypothesis:        Sensing in bipolar and extended bipolar configurations are the same. However, sensing in       bipolar over time is more likely to decrease when compared to extended bipolar.        Objectives:          1. To compare bipolar sensing and extended bipolar sensing in VF.          2. Compare sensing in bipolar and extended bipolar over time.        Methods:          1. This study will be a randomized comparison of bipolar and extended bipolar sensing. As            per usual standard of care, at the end of ICD implantation two sensing tests in VF will            be performed. Patients will be randomized to sensing in VF through the device. Each            patient will undergo testing in one randomized configuration followed by a second test            in the other configuration. After testing at the time of implant, each patient will be            seen at one month in follow up. Sensing of each configuration will be reevaluated at            that time in sinus rhythm.          2. Each patient will serve as their own control, as data for sensing in both configurations            will be obtained in VF at the time of implant. During testing both signals types will be            recorded simultaneously through the ICD. The primary endpoint will be duration of            sensing (time to detection) in VF at the time of implant.          3. The secondary endpoint will be sensing in sinus rhythm at one month.          4. The patient population will include approximately 30-50 volunteers age >18, male and            female, both ischemic and nonischemic cardiomyopathy, with primary and secondary implant            indications.          5. Patients will be recruited when being evaluated for defibrillator implant.          6. Inclusion criteria: age >18 with ability to give informed consent, who are expected to            live more than one year, with indication for defibrillator implant and who are not            pacemaker dependent. Patients will have either ischemic or nonischemic cardiomyopathy.          7. Exclusion criteria: age <18, inability to give informed consent, or life expectancy less            than one year, pacemaker dependence, or use of preexisting lead for sensing, any            condition which would preclude ICD testing at the end of the implant. Patients who are            undergoing upgrade to an ICD from a pacemaker will also be excluded. In addition,            patients with inherited arrhythmias or ion channel related arrhythmias will be excluded            from the study.          8. Withdrawal criteria: inability to implant device, implant lead at the RV apex, or make            follow up appointment (living out of state), patient death at time of implant, elevated            DFT (<10 J margin between DFT and maximum output of the device) requiring additional            procedures, subcutaneous array etc.          9. Duration of patient participation would be one month.         10. Duration of study would be one year.        Procedures:          1. Procedures to be followed would include screening of all eligible patients undergoing            implant of a Medtronic defibrillator for either primary or secondary prevention. If            patients meet inclusion criteria they would then undergo informed consent and if willing            be enrolled in the study. Defibrillator implant and testing would be performed as per            usual practice of the implanting physician. The RV lead will be placed at the RV apex as            is usual for regular implantation of devices. However, if a lead is placed elsewhere,            the patient will need to be withdrawn from the study.          2. When VF induction is performed, sensing configuration would be tested in a randomized            fashion, unblinded to the operator. The untested configuration would then be tested            during second VF induction. Both tests would be performed at a sensitivity setting of            1.2mV, with a number of intervals to detection (NID) of 24/32. Final programming            polarity will be left at the initially tested polarity (first DFT test), unless the            operator sees a need to program differently for patient safety reasons.          3. Medtronic defibrillators with both sensing configurations available will be used. Data            collection will be performed by Dr. Tolat, Dr. Berns, Dr. Lippman, Dr. Dell'Orfano, and            the study coordinator involved with the study. A data collection form and spreadsheet            will be kept for use when collecting data for analysis. Follow up will be performed at            one month post implant in the office.        Risk Analysis:          1. Anticipated risks are no more than that anticipated with usual ICD implant. To date,            usual implant includes induction of VF with analysis of sensing in VF and evaluation of            defibrillation threshold by delivery of shock.          2. There is no expected increased exposure to risk by performing this study.          3. Potential benefits would include gathering additional information on sensing in VF in            both configurations instead of performing the two sensing tests in one configuration.            This may directly benefit the patient by allowing for reprogramming defibrillator            without bringing the patient back to the hospital for further testing.        Data Analysis:          1. Data collection will include patient information kept in a database with name kept            confidential. Patients will only be identified by number in keeping with privacy laws            and practice. In addition to usual patient characteristics, data variables to be            collected in both configurations will include: R wave amplitude in sinus rhythm, time to            detection in VF, total episode duration (time to Vfib detection and charge delivered),            number of "drop outs" (undersensing) in VF, and follow up R wave amplitude in one month.          2. Statistical Methods will compare bipolar sensing configuration to the extended bipolar            configuration at baseline, sensing in VF (as measured by "drop out", time to detection),            and follow up amplitude of the R wave at one month.          3. The current expected sample size with this pilot study is 30 patients. This may require            reevaluation depending on results at the time of interim analysis.
Objective: The purpose of the protocol is to determine the effects of the social content of       gestures on brain activation patterns. We will localize the extent and areas of brain       activation by using functional MRI during observation of gesture varied by type of gesture,       number of images shown at a time, and number of times a subject is exposed to a face.        Study Population: Healthy, normal adult volunteers will participate in a gesture observation       experiment using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).        Design: The experiment we are conducting will employ an event-related design to determine       whether increasing the social content of the gesture spreads activation from traditional       sensorimotor regions engaged in mirror movement activity to regions in the prefrontal cortex       (PFC) concerned with processing social behavior.        Outcome Measures: The data collected will consist of accuracy measures of cognitive       performance, fMRI images, and post-questionnaire results. The results gained from this       protocol will provide evidence for a social effect of gesturing.
This project will prospectively enroll all consecutive patients undergoing implantable       cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) and ICD with biventricular pacemaker (CRT-D) implantation       for heart failure from in-patient and out-patient setting. Primary objective: Compare the       psychosocial function and quality of life of ICD patients to Patients receiving CRT-D       therapy. Secondary outcome objectives: 1)Determine and compare the change in LVED (left       ventricular end distolic) dimension and LVESV (left ventricular end systolic volume)from       baseline to 9 month follow up in CRT and ICD patient.2)Determine and compare the change in       NYHA (New York Heart Association) classification, KCCQ, optimisim and pessimism, degree of       stress, and social support from baseline to 9 month follow up in CRT and ICD patients.       Florida Patient Acceptance Survey and Florida Shock Anxiety Scale will be determined and       compared at 3 monthe and 9 months.3)Determine and compare Clinical composite score(Packer M       2002)in patient groups where: Worsened-patient dies, improved, unchanged. Inclusion Criteria:       Patient referred for device therapy (ICD or CRT-D) for chronic congestive heart failure who       are willing and able to give informed consent and participate in follow-up calls. Duration of       patient follow up will be 9 months. Statistical Mehtodology: Univariate, Multivariatae,       Kaplan-Meier analysis
nan
This was a prospective, single-arm, multi-center U.S. clinical investigation, designed to       demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the SITELINE 2 Polyurethane extendable,       retractable pacing lead in humans
This is a double-blinded randomized crossover pilot study testing two basal pacing rates:       DDD-60 versus DDD-80. Each patient is paced for 2 periods of 90 days with DDD-60 and DDD-80       in a randomly sequence.        Blood samples NT-proBNP plasma levels are analysed at baseline and at the end of each phase       using electrochemiluminescence-immunoassay. Patients rest for 15 minutes before the samples       are taken.        These result are monitored by supervisory group to ensure that increase of more than 15% than       baseline values result in termination of study.        Investigators conduct two distinct questionnaires (Minnesota Living with Heart Failure       (LIfHE) questionnaire and Medical Outcome Survey Short Form (SF-36)) A symptom limiting       bicycle (Ergoline, Baden-Württemberg, Germany) exercise test is performed to measure maximum       work capacity and oxygen consumption at each phase.        Recordings of resting muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) are sought in all patients at       both rates of pacing. All patients are studied on the same set-up in the semi-recumbent       position after 30 minutes of rest. Tungsten microelectrodes (Iowa Bioengineering) are       inserted into the common peroneal nerve just below the knee.
nan
nan
Study Population:        Inclusion criteria -all patients undergoing elective TAVR Exclusion criteria -patients with       permanent implanted pacemakers or ICDs prior to TAVR          1. Record standard 12-lead ECG prior to procedure.          2. Place standard electrode catheter via a venous sheath prior to TAVR          3. Initially place the catheter in a proximal position with a large atrial electrogram and            proximal His electrogram.          4. Record baseline His bundle electrogram. Record baseline AH and HV intervals.          5. Pace the atrium starting at a cycle length 100 ms shorter than the sinus cycle length,            progressively reducing the paced cycle length in 20 ms decrements after 3 seconds pacing            at each cycle length, while continuously monitoring arterial blood pressure, to A-V            block.          6. Advance the distal electrodes while maintaining recording of a His bundle electrogram to            a position where stable right ventricular pacing is secured. Record the RV pacing            threshold.          7. If a stable right ventricular pacing position together with stable His bundle            electrogram cannot be achieved, a second venous temporary pacing wire will be placed.          8. Record presence or absence of retrograde conduction during RV pacing at 4 times pacing            threshold.          9. Ensure stable continuous His bundle electrogram recording while the aortic valve            prosthesis is deployed.         10. Use the distal electrodes for rapid ventricular pacing at 4 times threshold during            deployment of the valve prosthesis.         11. After the prosthesis has been deployed and is deemed stable, just prior to removing the            RV catheter, record a final HBE (AH, HBE, SCL) and again pull back catheter to enable            atrial capture with proximal electrodes - pace as above to AV block: start starting at a            cycle length 100 ms shorter than the sinus cycle length, progressively reducing the            paced cycle length in 20 ms decrements after 3 seconds pacing at each cycle length while            monitoring continuous arterial blood pressure to A-V block.         12. Record 12-lead ECG after completion of the procedure and daily thereafter until hospital            discharge.         13. Standard telemetry monitoring post procedure while hospitalized.         14. Upon hospital discharge place a standard continuous ambulatory ECG monitor for 2 weeks            in patients that do not have a pacemaker implanted.
All eligible patients willing to provide written informed consent were invited to participate       in the study, and then randomized 1:2 to either the Control Group or Echo-guided Group.       Patients randomized into the Control Group were implanted with a dual chamber pacemaker       (DDDR) device (St. Jude Medical) standard therapy. Patients randomized into the Echo-guided       Group were implanted with a cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) device (St.       Jude Medical), which was programmed to DDDR pacing mode (CRT-P OFF) at implant. For each       Echo-guided Group patient, presence of RVA pacing induced ventricular dyssynchrony was       assessed within 24-hour of implant using the standardized criteria of Doppler       echocardiography. The Echocardiography Core Laboratory (Echo Core Lab) then analyzed each       image and the treatment allocation of the Echo-guided Group was done within 72-hour post       implant based on the Echo Core Lab outcomes:          -  Patients with the presence of RVA pacing induced ventricular dyssynchrony were allocated            to the CRT-P standard therapy with CRT-P turned ON          -  Patients with the absence of RVA pacing induced ventricular dyssynchrony were allocated            to the DDDR standard therapy with CRT-P remained OFF        Patients meeting all the inclusion criteria and not meeting any of the exclusion criteria       were eligible for the study. Data was collected at the following study visits:Enrollment,       Implant & Randomization, Pre-discharge (PDH) (≤ 72 hours post implant), Month 1 follow-up       visit: 30 ± 14 days post implant, Month 3 follow-up visit: 90 ± 14 days post implant, Month 6       follow-up visit: 180 ± 14 days post implant and Month 12 follow-up visit: 365 ± 14 days post       implant
The TaurusOne® transcatheter aortic valve system with retrievable delivery catheter system is       evaluated the safety and effectiveness for the delivery of artificial aortic valve in a       prospective, multicenter, single-arm clinical trial. According to the inclusion and exclusion       criteria, sixty patients are planed been enrolled and implanted with TaurusOne® .Patients are       seen at pre and post procedure, discharge, 30 days. The main follow-up included clinical       symptoms and signs, cardiac ultrasound, CT, etc. The outcome included immediate device       success, procedure success, And the major cardiovascular and cerebrovascular adverse events       (MACCE, including mortality, stroke, myocardial infarction, reoperation, arrhythmia,       conduction block).
Cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) with biventricular pacemakers and implantable cardiac       defibrillators (ICD) has proven to be a valuable therapy in selected patients with systolic       heart failure, ameliorating both morbidity and mortality. However, with current selection       criteria and implant technique, about 20 to 30 % of patients remain non-responders.       Non-responders might be due to failing selection criteria or methodology in casu       echocardiography. However, an important number of non-responders may result of sub-optimal       positioning of the left ventricular lead, remote from the site of delayed activation.       Endocardial left ventricular stimulation may ameliorate the shortcomings of epicardial       stimulation. The advantage of an endocardial approach is the absence of phrenic nerve       stimulation which regularly complicates epicardial pacing, a more predictable pacing       threshold and much less restriction to position the lead in the area of interest. Transseptal       left ventricular endocardial pacing has already been used in patients in whom standard       epicardial pacing was not applicable.
Obesity is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver in children. Currently, body mass index       is used for stratification risk for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in children. However,       body mass index represents the adjusted weight status for height and may not be a perfect       surrogate for body fatness. This study assumes that a combination of body measures including       parameters of bioelectrical impedance analysis and hand grip strength may better represented       body fatness and healthy status than body mass index. Moreover, non-alcoholic fatty liver       disease is strongly associated with the metabolic syndrome and non-invasive urine metabolic       profile may be used to predict the disease status. The aim of this study will be to develop       non-invasive methods using body measures and urine metabolic profile to predict pediatric       fatty liver disease.        This study will recruit 1200 apparently healthy children at Year 1 to Year 6 in the primary       schools in Taiwan within a two-year period. A series of tests including body measures,       bioelectrical impedance analysis, hand grip strength and urine metabolomics by nuclear       magnetic resonance will be performed in each participant. These data will be used as features       to predict the results of Fibroscan test.
This pilot study was designed to explore an alternative dosing approach with the purpose of       reducing anemia and thrombocytopenia. Subjects began dosing at 10 mg bid and had the       opportunity for dose increases based on assessments of efficacy and overall hematologic       status in a defined prior dosing interval. Dose increases were restricted to those patients       who did not meet criteria for or have a dose hold over the prior 6 weeks, had a platelet       count ≥100 x 10^9/L at week 12 or ≥150 x 10^9/L at week 18, and had a self-reported Patient's       Global Impression of Change (PGIC) score of 3 (minimally improved) to 7 (very much worse) OR       the subject's palpable spleen length below the costal margin had been reduced by less than       40% at that visit relative to Baseline. Dose increases were elective and not required.       Subjects were permitted a dose increase of 5 mg BID to 15 mg BID at Week 12 and to a maximum       of 20 mg BID at Week 18. There were also protocol-required dose decreases for       thrombocytopenia (platelets <100 x 10^9/L) or protocol-defined anemia (decline in hemoglobin       of at least 2 g/dL to a level < 8 g/dL, development of transfusion dependence, or a 50%       increase in transfusion requirements for transfusion dependent subjects).This approach       assumed that beginning at a low dose for initial therapy might have a positive impact on the       rate of the initial hemoglobin decline and the nadir by decreasing the level of JAK-mediated       inhibition of hematopoiesis. Specific dose modifications were described to minimize       excursions of hemoglobin levels into the Grade 3 or Grade 4 range.
nan
Endometriosis is typically associated with severe pelvic pain and pain is often combined with       dysfunctional symptoms of the urinary bladder and the bowel. Endometriosis impairs the       health-related quality of life and pain is the main reason for the decreased quality of life.       When the primary endometriosis treatments, i.e. hormonal therapy and surgery, fail to       alleviate pain or symptoms recur after successful treatment, the options are often limited.       Recurrent or long-lasting endometriosis pain commonly involves neuropathic pain component       with periferal or central sensitisation to pain. This kind of pain is likely more resistant       to traditional endometriosis treatments and thus neuromodulation offers a logical treatment       option.        There are some case series and at least one randomized trial describing the effect of Sacral       Neuromodulation in chronic pelvic pain associated with interstitial cystitis and painful       bladder syndrome. These reports indicate that Sacral Neuromodulation may be effective in       treating chronic pelvic pain but the level of evidence is low. There is one report on       long-term pelvic pain with Visual Analogue Scale score dropping from 8.1 to 2.1 and the       effect lasting for five years. There are also few case reports on different difficult sacral       area pain conditions treated successfully with Sacral Nerve Modulation. The common consensus       seems to be that further studies are needed on the effects of Sacral Neuromodulation on       chronic pelvic pain.        This study aims to evaluate if sacral neuromodulation alleviates pelvic pain symptoms and       related dysfunctional symptoms in surgically treated endometriosis patients and improves       their health-related quality of life. The treating gynecologist does the screening for       suitable patients and a signed informed consent is needed from the patients prior to entering       the study. A test pulse generator is placed uni- or bilaterally under local or general       anesthesia and used during a 2-3-week test period. A permanent pulse generator is placed if       marked improvement of symptoms is detected, the patient is satisfied with the treatment and       willing to continue. Women not responding to sacral neuromodulation will not receive a       permanent generator. They are asked to continue in the 3 year follow-up and they serve as the       control group if applicable.
The main aim of this patient-pooled analyses is to compare stroke rates and mortality in       patients undergoing TAVI with the self-expandable MCV prosthesis compared to the       balloon-expandable ES valve. However, this collaboration may also be used to compare various       outcomes.        Studies were included if they complied with the following requirements: original prospective       studies, including patients with aortic valve stenosis treated with transfemoral TAVI of       native valves and reporting of 30 day stroke outcomes according to VARC criteria or other       specified corresponding criteria . Moreover, to be included studies had to report both the       use of self-expandable MCV prosthesis and the balloon-expandable ES valve in more than 50       patients in each arm to ensure experience in use of the valves. Studies were excluded if they       only addressed patients undergoing valve-in-valve and re-do procedures or bicuspid valves or       included the same study population. Principal Investigators of these studies were approached       for collaboration.
Subjects with reduced ejection fraction will be randomized to 8 weeks Yoga training (1 in       class session and home practice) vs. no Yoga. They will undergo holter monitoring, cardiac       device interrogation, and I-123 mIBG imaging at the beginning and end of the study.
This is a prospective randomized study designed to determine whether cardiac       resynchronization therapy (CRT) device programming guided by the ECG Belt (Medtronic, PLC)       improves echocardiographic and functional outcomes in heart failure (HF) patients. The       population will include patients treated with CRT for standard indications (not implanted for       the sole purposes of this study). The study will focus enrollment on patients who do not have       baseline characteristics predicting the best CRT response. Therefore the study will not       enroll patients having non-ischemic HF etiology, left bundle branch (LBBB) morphology, and       QRSd > 150 ms or those previously RV paced.
nan
This is a single-blinded study of 100 patients randomized to a strategy of His-Purkinje       conduction system pacing Optimized Trial of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (HOT-CRT)       versus biventricular pacing using coronary sinus (CS) lead (BVP). Both treatment options use       standard-of-care, FDA-approved devices. The distinction is only in the allocation toward       HOT-CRT and BVP. Treating physicians will be aware of assignment in order to facilitate       routine device follow-up. Echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evaluation will also be       performed in a blinded manner.        Cross-over is permitted between treatment group allocation if:        CS lead cannot be placed due to difficult cannulation of the CS, limited branches at the       posterolateral or lateral wall, or phrenic nerve capture. These subjects may then cross-over       to HOT-CRT.        HOT-CRT subjects may cross-over if His or left bundle pacing lead cannot be positioned with       adequate stability and reasonable pacing output, or if optimal QRS narrowing cannot be       achieved.        Implant procedure will be per routine percutaneous access, as is standard for pacemaker and       Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs). . All subjects will receive an FDA-approved       cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker or defibrillator device, as per standard of care       outlined for the subject.        Follow-up will be performed at 2 weeks post-implant for incision check and device       interrogation as is standard of care. In addition, routine device and clinical follow-up will       be scheduled at 3 and 6 months. Electrocardiography (ECG) will be performed pre-implant,       prior to hospital discharge, at 3 months, and 6 months. Echocardiography will be performed       pre-implant and 6 months to evaluate for change in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF),       chamber dimensions, volumes, and change in Left Ventricular (LV) end systolic volume index as       is standard of care in the treatment of patients with advanced heart failure. New York Heart       Association (NYHA) functional class and quality of life (utilizing the Kansas City       Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and EQ 5D) will be assessed pre-implant and at 6 months.
Key Inclusion Criteria:          1. Subject must have the Image Ready System as their initial (de novo) pacing system            implant.          2. Subject has a Class I or II indication for implantation of a pacemaker according to the            CSPE guidelines.          3. Subject is able and willing to undergo an MR scan.•          4. Subject is willing and capable of providing informed consent and participating in all            testing/ visits associated with this clinical study at the intervals defined by this            protocol.          5. Subject is age 18 or above.        Key Exclusion Criteria          1. Subject has or has had any pacing or ICD system implants.          2. Subject has any implants or devices that are not suitable for MR scan.          3. Subject is enrolled in any other concurrent study that might interfere with this study.          4. Subject has documented life expectancy of less than 12 months.          5. Women of childbearing potential who are or might be pregnant at the time of this study.        Primary Safety Endpoint:        MR Scan related Complication Free Rate Analyzed at MRI Visit +1 Month.        Primary efficacy Endpoint:          1. Pacing Threshold (at 0.5 ms pulse width) comparison pre and 1 Month post MR Scan: pacing            threshold increase ≤ 0.5 V after scan.          2. Sensed Amplitude comparison pre- and 1 Month post-MR Scan: sensed amplitude: ≥ 1.0 mV            after scan, and ≥ 50% of that before scan.
This extension study, designed as a long-term follow up, will monitor the course of the       disease and its treatment safety and efficacy by collecting the appropriate data and using       data collected under the long term provisions of the DEBuT-HT study to describe and analyze       the changes in ongoing drug treatment, the programming parameters of the implanted active       device and any occurring adverse events over a period of up to 13 months after implant       surgery in the DEBuT-HT trial. Annual follow-ups of up to five years are planned subsequently       to the 13-month follow-up period.
BACKGROUND        Chagas disease (CD) is a permanent threat for almost a quarter of the population of Latin       America. Although the disease has been described in almost all Central and South America,       clinical presentation and epidemiological characteristics are highly variable among the       different endemic zones (1,2). A wide range of prevalence rates has also been reported       suggesting local differences in transmission of the disease as well as differences in vectors       and reservoirs (3). Chagas cardiomyopathy (CCM) represents a serious public health problem in       most Latin American countries, and the most recent statistics provided by the World Health       Organization indicate that 100 million persons are exposed to the disease and approximately       20 million are currently infected (4). Interestingly, in addition to the natural infection       foci, an increase in the transmission associated with blood transfusions has also been       noticed. These statistics are considered an underestimation of the real rates of infection,       most likely due to lack of reports from highly endemic retired rural communities. In       countries in which the disease is endemic such as Colombia, Venezuela and Brazil, the overall       prevalence of infection averages 10 percent. However, in highly endemic rural areas rates       have ranged from 25 to 75 percent (5). Prevalence of infection varies widely even between       cities and provinces within the same country because of variations in climate, housing       condition, public health measures, and urbanization. The actual prevalence of clinical Chagas       disease and the number of case fatalities are largely unknown, mainly because case reporting       is virtually nonexistent in many areas in which CD is highly endemic. Congestive heart       failure (CHF) is a late manifestation of CD that results from structural abnormalities and       extensive and irreversible damage to the myocardium. Heart failure in T. cruzi infected       patients usually occurs after age 40 and follows AV block or ventricular aneurysm. However,       when CHF develops in patients less than 30 years old it is frequently associated with a more       aggressive myocarditis and an extremely poor prognosis (1). The mortality attributable to CD       is related to the severity of the underlying heart disease. Very high mortality is often       found in patients with congestive heart failure (2), however, mortality in asymptomatic       seropositive patients varies greatly between geographic regions, suggesting that other       factors may influence the severity and progression rate of cardiac disease. It is believed       that cardiac damage in CD progresses slowly but steadily over decades, from subclinical       myocarditis to mild segmental abnormalities with conduction defects, to severe ventricular       structural abnormalities, and finally to overt congestive heart failure and sudden cardiac       death.        Besides the poor prognosis of CHF due to Chagas disease, it is important to estimate the risk       of complications and death in patient infected with T. cruzi. Unfortunately, few clinical       studies have addressed this issue. Most T. cruzi infected patients have mild or no clinical       disease, however, the percentage of infected people that will develop detectable cardiac       abnormalities is approximately 30 to 40 percent (3), but only 20 percent of them will develop       symptomatic cardiac involvement (6). Like CHF from other causes, CHF due to CD responds to       digital, diuretics and vasodilators therapy (7). Additionally, some studies have shown that       angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors improve survival in patients with moderate to       severe CHF due to CD (8). In spite of its benefits on patients with non Chagas disease CHF,       there is considerable uncertainty about the potential role of ACE inhibitors in patients with       CHF due to Chagas disease. Captopril, and ACE inhibitors, has been shown to reduce       neurohormonal activation and non lethal arrhythmias in a small number of patients with Chagas       heart failure (8,9). Another intervention currently included in the management of CHF       patients is the use of b blockers. Observational studies (10) as well as clinical trials       (11,12) have shown that b-blockers reduce morbidity and mortality in CHF patients. The       effects of b-blockers on CHF patients are being studied in large scale clinical trials       (13-19). Apparently, the cardiac sympathetic hyperstimulation that initially helps to       preserve ventricular function in CHF patients, later on, results in an increased risk of       cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death (20) b-adrenoreceptor antagonism seems to protect against       the deleterious effects of chronic sympathetic stimulation (21). Moreover, b-blockers reduce       heart rate, improve myocardial energetic balance and lead to a less negative force-frequency       relationship. These effects contribute to the benefits of b-blocker therapy in CHF patients.       Clinical studies with Carvedilol, a a1 and non selective b-blocker, further support the       beneficial effects of b-adrenoceptor antagonism (18,19,23,24). Results from the US CARVEDILOL       and COPERNICUS trial, suggest that prognosis in CHF may partly depend on left ventricular       dysfunction improvement as well as sympathetic activity reduction (18,23). However,       additional data are needed to define more precisely the relationships between heart rate       reduction, left ventricular function improvement and survival in CHF patients. In some       studies like CIBIS II and MERIT HF, the beneficial effects of the selective b- blockers on       morbidity and mortality were observed specially in patients functional class II and III. In       COPERNICUS a multicentric placebo controlled clinical trial with Carvedilol, these effect was       ascertained even in patients functional class IV (23), demonstrating that patients with CHF,       independently of their functional class, should receive b-blocker therapy. Current guidelines       for the management of CHF strongly recommend the use of beta-blockade in management of CHF.       However, these benefits have not been proven in Chagas´ cardiomyopathy (25,26). Nevertheless,       there are reasons to believe that beta-blockade will be beneficial for these patients.        First, patients with CHF due to CD have a raised end-diastolic pressure associated with a low       systemic blood pressure, which lead to low transmyocardial pressure gradient and       subendocardial ischemia. Therefore, reduction in myocardial oxygen demand due to       beta-blockade could be expected to be beneficial in this situation, even in non ischemic CHF       patients. Second the reduction in sudden cardiac deaths and serious ventricular arrhythmias       suggest that an anti arrhythmic effect is an important component of beta-blockade. This       anti-arrhythmic effect is explicable not only on an anti-ischemic basis but also by blockade       of sympathetic activity, which is indeed increased in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy.       Third, prolonged activation of the sympathetic nervous system can accelerate the progression       of heart failure, and the rate of progression can be substantially decreased using       pharmacological agents that interfere with sympathetic activity in the heart and peripheral       blood vessels. There is clear evidence of increased circulating beta-adrenergic antibodies in       Chagas disease providing further theoretical support for the use of beta-adrenergic blockade       in this group of patients.        Beta-blockers already proven to be beneficial in CHF patients are metoprolol, bisoprolol and       carvedilol, drugs which have been tested in over 10.000 patients in more than 20       placebo-controlled clinical trials enrolling men and women with systolic dysfunction due to       ischemia, hypertension and dilated idiopathic cardiomyopathy.        Bisoprolol is a beta-1 selective blocker with the highest selectivity for this receptor, in       doses less than 10 mg it has very little or no effect on beta-2 receptors. Bisoprolol was       first tested in CHF in the CIBIS I trial which enrolled 641 patients and showed improvement       in functional class, less hospitalizations for heart failure and a trend to improved       survival. The much larger randomized CIBIS II assigned 2647 patients with class III or IV HF       and an LVEF lower than 40 percent to bisoprolol or placebo, the patients also received       standard therapy with diuretics and ACE inhibitors. After an average follow-up of 1.4 years,       the trial was prematurely stopped when the benefits were observed in the active treatment       group: significant reduction in total all-cause mortality (11.8 versus 17.3 percent) that was       independent of the severity or cause of HF. This benefit was primarily due to a reduction in       SCD (3.6 versus 6.3 percent, p 0.001), with a non-significant trend toward fewer deaths from       HF, significant 15 percent reduction in hospital admissions for any cause and a 30 percent       reduction in admissions for HF (p 0.0001).        Considering all the beneficial effects beta-blockers in patients with mild to severe CHF due       to ischemic and non ischemic disease, there is no data regarding its potential effects in       patients with CHF due to Chagas disease. Based on the aforementioned we propose to develop a       multi-center placebo controlled clinical trial to evaluate the effect of Bisoprolol in       patients with CHF due to CD.        OBJECTIVES        Primary Objective:        To investigate the effect of the beta-blocker bisoprolol on survival and HF hospitalization       rates, and other previously predefined outcomes in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and       heart failure.        Secondary Objective:        To investigate the effect of the beta-blocker bisoprolol on quality of life, progression to       heart block and need for electrical therapy (i.e. pacemaker, ICD, CRT).        OUTCOMES        Primary Outcomes:        The composite of the first occurrence of ANY of the following          -  Cardiovascular death.          -  Hospital admission caused by heart failure.          -  Major adverse cardiovascular events: stroke, systemic embolism, resuscitated sudden            death.          -  Bradycardia requiring pacemaker implantation.          -  Clinically significant sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia causing syncope:            sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.        Secondary Outcomes:          -  Non-cardiovascular death.          -  Heart failure worsening or mortality related with CHF.          -  New AV block.          -  Need for Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), Cardiac resynchronization Therapy            (CRT) or Pacemaker therapy (PM).          -  Perceived quality of life worsening.        HYPOTHESES          -  Bisoprolol will reduce cardiovascular death in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy with            heart failure functional class NYHA II to IV.          -  Bisoprolol is safe in patients without advanced heart block.          -  Bisoprolol will significantly reduce hospitalization rates due to heart failure in            patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy in functional class NYHA II to        STUDY DESIGN        CHARITY is a multicenter randomized prospective, double blind, placebo-controlled,       forced-titration study in subjects with CHF secondary to CCM. Enrolled subjects will receive       placebo or Bisoprolol in addition to standard therapy for chronic heart failure which       includes an ACE-inhibitor and may include diuretics or other medication such as digitalis or       nitrates for heart failure.        Patients included in CHARITY should be on stable doses of an ACE-inhibitor. Diuretics can be       added to treatment as needed but patients must be on stable doses of each drug during four       weeks prior to randomization.        500 subjects will be randomized in two arms; one will receive oral bisoprolol and the other       placebo, during the duration of the study. Forced titration will start with the lowest oral       dose of 2.5 mg qd and will be up-titrated in 2.5 mg increments every two weeks until the       maximum tolerated dose is achieved or 10 mg qd is reached. In case of intolerance, dose will       be reduced to the previously tolerated lower dose. Subjects not tolerating the lower dose of       2.5 qd will have a treatment interruption. The best tolerated dose will be continued for one       month, then a security visit will re-asses tolerance. Thereafter patients will be controlled       every three months until they complete the mean follow-up period of two years. Standard heart       failure therapy with ACE-inhibitors, diuretics, digitalis and nitrates will be strongly       reinforced in both parallel arms.        BLINDING        Patients and investigators will remain blinded during the trial. The treatment codes will       remain blinded until the database is locked for final analysis.        PRETREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS        Baseline vital signs will be obtained with patients in the sitting and after 3 minutes in the       standing position.        Twelve-lead ECGs will be recorded in each patient. Left ventricular ejection fraction at rest       will be determined by echocardiography, using a modified Simpsons rule to calculate LV       volumes.        Quality of life questionnaire will be administrated two weeks apart during baseline       examination using a translated-validated version of the Minnesota living with heart failure       questionnaire.        Minimum of two 6-minutes corridor walk test once a week over a 2-week period will be       performed. The last value will be used if it is within 10 percent of the previous value.        FOLLOW-UP PERIOD        ECG tracings will be recorded during the security visit and at 1 and 2 years. Patients will       be followed for two years after randomization. Repeat echocardiograms will be recorded at 1       and 2 years of follow-up along with HF Quality of-life questionnaire and six-minute walk       tests.        Clinical measurements will be obtained every three months along with an assessment of       treatment adherence and tolerance. Mortality and hospitalization events will be ascertained       by telephonic interview and verified with hospital charts review, up to two years after       randomization.        MONITORING COMMITTEES        Steering committee        The committee has the overall responsibility for producing and conducting a scientifically       sound design and ensuring accurate reporting of the study. In that capacity, the Steering       Committee must address and resolve scientific issues encountered during the study. This       committee will meet at least twice a year. The main role of the Steering Committee is the       development of the protocol and CRF and to ensure appropriate conduction of the trial. The       steering committee is composed by the principal investigators and site investigators. The       chairman of the steering committee is the principal investigator. The primary scientific       publication reporting the study results is the responsibility of the Steering Committee.        CHARITY Operations Committee        The Operations Committee will consist of a select group of Steering Committee members chosen       for their specific expertise and experience. This group will be responsible for ensuring that       study execution and management are of the highest quality.        FCVRI Project Office        The FCVRI Project Office is located at the Instituto de Investigaciones-FCV in Bucaramanga,       Santander, Colombia,is independent and its primary function is to facilitate and oversee the       execution of the study. The FCV Project Office will keep the Operations Committee appraised       of the progress and conduct of the trial and will provide ongoing administrative and       methodological support to the Event Adjudication Committee and the DSMB        Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)        The DSMB will include at least 2 prominent cardiologists and a neurologist, as well as a       statistician. Their mandate will be to provide on-going review of the safety of all the       investigational treatments.        Adverse Events and Adjudication Committee        The Event Adjudication Committee is charged with the responsibility for validating all       reported primary fatal and nonfatal outcomes and validating the classification of cause of       death. The Event Adjudication process will be coordinated at the FCVRI Project Office in       Bucaramanga. This committee, composed of experts in the field will review, in a blinded       manner; all reported outcome events to provide consistency and validity in the assessment of       outcomes. Their decisions will be based on blind clinical data provided and they will       consider the impressions of the clinical investigator. Their decisions will be used in the       final analysis. The AE Committee (AE-AC) is composed by clinical experts and one principal       investigator, its responsibilities are to review and verify every AE, SAE and Adverse Drug       Reactions (ADR) reported, and to supervise all relevant SAE information is complete. The       AE-EC will validate all SAE in a blinded form and notify investigators, Independent Ethics       Committees and regulation authorities of all SAE and clinically relevant AE. The AE-EC will       also validate outcomes providing standard classifications and definitions and reviewing       supporting information provided by investigators.        SELECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF SUBJECTS        Inclusion Criteria          -  Males or females aged 18 to 70 years.          -  Heart failure symptoms NYHA functional class II to IV          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction lower than 40 percent determined by bi-dimensional            echocardiography using modified Simpsons rule for ventricular volumes.          -  Subjects must be on standard and stable outpatient doses of ACEIs or angiotensin II            receptor antagonist for at least four weeks.          -  Subjects receiving diuretics must be on a stable dose for at least two weeks.          -  Clinical Euvolemia:as evidenced by absence of rales, no pleural effusion or ascitis and            no more than minimal peripheric edema.        Exclusion Criteria          -  CHF due to ischemic heart disease, valvular disease or any other etiology different than            CD.          -  Severe aortic insufficiency          -  Baseline advanced AV block defined as Mobitz type 2 or third degree AV block          -  Serum creatinine greater than 2.5 mg/dl.          -  Resting Heart rate less than 45 bpm          -  Known malignancy and other severe disease which shorten life expectancy less than 6            months.          -  Subjects with contraindications for beta-blockers: severe obstructive chronic pulmonary            disease, asthma, severe pulmonary hypertension, type 1 diabetes mellitus or history of            hypoglycemia.          -  Suspected or confirmed chronic infectious disease including HIV and hepatitis B.          -  History of active substance or alcohol abuse within the last year.          -  Clinically significant psychiatric illness which can negatively affect the subject            compliance and participation in the trial.          -  Pregnancy or lactation.          -  Organic disease or gastrointestinal surgery which can affect the oral absorption and            pharmacodynamics of the medication under study.          -  Enrollment and participation in other active treatment trial within the previous month.          -  Failure to provide written informed consent.        Interruption of treatment        Trial treatment should be interrupted under the following conditions.          -  The patient decides it is in his-her best interest.          -  The investigator considers it is advisable or in the patients best interest.          -  Intolerable adverse experience(s).          -  Presence of life-threatening conditions despite adjustment of therapy.        If study treatment is interrupted, every effort should be made to reinstate treatment as soon       as possible and medically acceptable. The re-initiation dose is determined at investigators       discretion and the dose may be reduced or re-started at the last dose level. Patients with       treatment interruption should continue on the protocols visit schedule and study procedures       except drug dispensing.        TREATMENTS        The FCV Research Institute will supply ranurated 5 mg bisoprolol tablets and matched placebo       needed for the whole duration of the trial. Study drug and placebo have been kindly provided       by Merck Colombia.        EFFICACY ASSESSMENT        Efficacy assessments will be made at every visit during the trial following randomization.       Information will be recorded in the supplied CRF formats dealing with clinical variables,       Adverse Events (AE), Serious Adverse Events (SAE) and endpoints.        Each of the primary endpoints will be recorded on the SAE form and in the individual       corresponding form for each endpoint.        Endpoint Definitions        Cardiovascular death: any death attributable to a cardiac or vascular cause occurring within       two years after randomization.        Non-cardiovascular death: death from any cause excluding cardiovascular diseases occurring       within two years after randomization..        Hospital admission-hospitalization caused by heart failure: admission in a hospital or clinic       during at least 24 hours caused by heart failure worsening. It excludes procedures and       hospitalization for procedures which have been scheduled and not due to worsening of the       current heart failure condition since randomization.        Heart failure worsening: decline of at least one functional class as defined by the New York       Heart Association occurring during any inter-visit period of three months needing inotropic       support, IV diuretics, medication dose adjustments or additional drugs for compensation.        Perceived quality of life worsening: increase in the Minnesota living with heart failure test       score of at least 10 points. The tests score ranges from 0 (best) to 100 (worst).        New AV block: appearance of any AV conduction disturbance including first, second and third       degree AV block after randomization.        Bradycardia requiring pacemaker implantation: ventricular rates < 50 per minute due to any       cause including sick-sinus syndrome and AV block, causing symptoms or disability and       complying with current indications for permanent pacemaker implantation.        ICD: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator indicated for the prevention and treatment of       sudden death, ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation.        CRT: cardiac resynchronization therapy or biventricular pacing or ventricular bifocal pacing       for the treatment of advanced heart failure.        PM: permanent pacemaker for the treatment of conduction disturbances. Clinically significant       ventricular arrhythmias: sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia or ventricular       fibrillation with symptoms caused by hemodynamic or perfusion alterations, circulatory       collapse or syncope.        STATISTICAL METHODS        Descriptive statistical analysis will be composed with simple distribution of frequencies,       calculation of proportions, means, their respective standard deviations and 95 percent       confidence intervals. For effects of group comparison, t-test and Mann-Whitney tests will be       used according to the dependent variable distribution. For categoric variables, the       Chi-square test or the exact Fisher test will be applied as corresponding.        Patient survival and hospitalization rates will be described using Kaplan-Meijer estimates       and survival graphs. Cox regression will be used for the multivariate analysis of time to       death and time to hospitalization.        Formal efficacy interim analyses will take place one year after the recruitment phase.        Expected Results        Direct Results: Study results will help identify interventions potentially useful to prevent       the progression from T. cruzi infection to CCM. This may significantly lessen the burden of       CD in Colombian and other exposed populations. This will have a significant impact on the       morbidity and mortality of the Colombian population, mainly in areas with high prevalence of       seropositive subjects for T. cruzi such as Santander. The execution of this project will       allow us to determine the effect of the b-blocker therapy on the CCM and the behavior of the       autonomic nervous system on the mortality and morbidity of subjects infected by T. cruzi. The       results of this study will also arise the need knowledge to suggest new therapeutic       interventions for patients with CCM.        Indirect Results: This project will contribute to the consolidate the clinical research group       of the Easter Cardiovascular Foundation as well the Chagas group that is already working at       the same institution.        Strategy to be use for data transferring        According to recent trends in the field literature we will try to get the results of this       project in one of the following clinical journals: Circulation, Journal of the American       College of Cardiology, American Journal of Cardiology and another one in one of the following       basic journals: Infection and Immunity, Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical       Medicine and Hygiene. The obtained results from this study will be presented at the Colombian       Congress of Cardiology, the Colombian Congress of Intern Medicine and at least in one       international meeting (Inter American Congress of Cardiology, Meeting of the American College       of Cardiology or the Annual Meeting of the American Heart Association). This strategy will       guarantee the communication, discussion and evaluation of the results by the international       scientific community in this subject.        Experience of the Research Group and presentation of the research team.        The members of the research team belong to the Research Institute of the Fundación       Cardiovascular del Oriente Colombiano (RIFCV) are physician from the medical staff of the FCV       and from the Instituto Colombiano de Investigacion ICIB, one of the members of the VILANO       group. The RIFCV is a well recognized research center, that has been promoted by COLCIENCIAS,       and has received twice economical support. During the last tree years the RIFCV has been       funded by COLCIENCIAS to make five research projects. Two of them, related to this subject,       are being carried out right now. Moreover, the RIFCV has also been funded by the Ministry of       Health for two projects. The RIFCV has also participated in more than ten projects funded by       pharmaceutical companies.        The RIFCV is one of the institution that constitute the ICIB. Three of the researcher of this       project, (CAM, LAC, JPC ) belong to the VILANOs group, which has been qualified by COLCIENCAS       as a group class A. The research team is a multidisciplinary group constituted by physicians       of several fields (Basic science, clinic and epidemiology) and includes one masters, tree       cardiologist, one master student and two general physician. The high academic degree and the       experience of the group allow to carry out high degree research with good quality. Tree of       the members of the team has developing research in the autonomic aspects of CCM and one have       been working in heart failure patients.
Periodical follow-up of a cohort of inflammatory cardiomyopathy patients (suspected or       validated inflammatory cardiomyopathy) recruited at baseline by the SFB/TR19 project.       Participants will be followed up at least every year - or more frequently based on clinical       need. Standardized protocols will be used for the assessment of medical history and       examinations, laboratory biomarkers, and the collection of various biomaterials for       biobanking purposes.
Neuromodulation is a validated option for the treatment of fecal incontinence. Safety of this       original approach has been confirmed by several studies. New indications for this       minimally-invasive procedure are actually under evaluation particularly in the fields of       irritable bowel syndrome and chronic constipation with promising results. Its mechanism of       action remains partially unknown and the target of neuromodulation is not limited to the anal       sphincter but the whole colonic motility seems to be influenced by this therapeutic approach.       Moreover, recent experimental studies have shown that neuromodulation was able to reinforce       the intestinal epithelial barrier involved in the pathophysiology of ulcerative colitis.        Subsequently, preliminary results in human have shown improvement of inflammation in patients       suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases. In fact, despite recent improvement in medical       therapies in inflammatory bowel diseases and particularly in ulcerative colitis, several       patients are suffering from disabling chronic active disease. In those cases of refractory       diseases, the only alternative treatment is a pan-proctocolectomy and ileal pouch surgery.       This approach is a curative option, but leads to a significant morbidity and frequent       functional disorders in the long-term follow-up (permanent stoma in 7 to 10% of the cases).       Moreover, in limited distal disease (left colon and rectum) the surgical option seems to be       unadapted and many patients remain symptomatic and suffer chronic active disease.        The aim of this study will be to assess in a prospective pilot study the efficacy of       ulcerative colitis in inducing the remission of chronic active ulcerative colitis limited to       the left side of the colon and improving the quality of life of the patients.
Despite intense study of anterior cruciate ligament injury during the past three decades, the       mechanisms of this injury have not been clearly defined. A recent study by the Principle       Investigator identified differences in leg alignment when a single leg landing during a       sports activity resulted in a torn ACL and when it did not (provocative versus control       alignment, respectively).        The purpose of the study is to quantify the tibiofemoral alignment in the lateral compartment       of the knee in the provocative landing position and the control landing position. in order to       elucidate possible mechanisms of ACL injury Material and Methods: 25 normal controls will be       recruited from the greater Washington DC population. Magnetic resonance images in the       sagittal plane will be acquired for a single leg of each subject. These images will cover the       lateral compartment of the knee and will be acquired with the leg in three positions, one       that emulates the injury position, one that exagerrates the injury position, and one that       emulates the control landing position. Statistical analysis of the measurements between the       provocative, exagerrated provocative, and control positions will then be performed.        These insights could then be applied to improving training focused on reducing the incidences       of ACL rupture; improving bracing designs to help athletes most at risk of ACL rupture or       those recovering from ACL injury/surgery; and improving ACL replacement surgeries.
nan
PICC line placement is a common procedure, made more difficult by the need to ensure that       catheter tip placement is in an acceptable location, typically the superior vena cava (SVC),       and ideally at the junction of the SVC and right atrium. Tip location is determined at       present by chest X-ray, which is performed after the procedure. If the tip location is       incorrect, additional procedures and/or X-rays are needed until proper placement is ensured.        Use of an electrode placed inside the catheter during insertion has been reported to provide       identifiable changes in the p-wave sufficient to guide placement. This study is designed to       collect ECG and catheter depth information during routine PICC placement procedures, and to       correlate these ECG changes to tip location as determined by contrast enhanced fluoroscopy.
Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) is a special subtype of Heart Failure       (HF), and the incidence of HF cases is rising to 4.5 million every year, according to       "Chinese cardiovascular disease report 2018" and "China Heart Failure and diagnostic       guidelines 2018". In 2000, the incidence of patients with chronic Heart Failure is as high as       0.9%, and faces significantly increase with the increase of age. Moreover, HFpEF patients       accounted for over 50% of heart failure, presenting normal left ventricular ejection fraction       (LVEF), and nonspecific HF clinical performance. In addition, as a heterogenous disease,       HFpEF is often associated with various comorbidities, including hypertension (~ 75%),       diabetes (~ 40%), obesity (> 80%), aging (~ 75 years), renal dysfunction (25-50%), pulmonary       hypertension (~ 50%), and other diseases. There is still much confusion about the       pathophysiology of the disease, and no effective treatment was confirmed, therefore the       diagnosis and treatment HFpEF has some challenges. With the increase of cardiovascular risk       factors such as hypertension (morbidity: 23.2% in 2018), diabetes (morbidity:10.9% in 2018,       treatment rate 32.2%) and the aging trend, the morbidity and mortality of HFpEF are still on       the rise, posing a threat to the life quality of more and more patients. Early identification       and intervention of HFpEF is an important method to reduce mortality and improve prognosis.       Yet, many studies have explored the role of different biochemical and inflammatory markers in       the diagnosis and prognosis assessment of HFpEF, limited for mixed indicators and low       sensitivity.        Cardiac Magnetic Resonance imaging (CMR) is a non-invasive "one-stop" examination, including       cardiac structure, function, tissue characteristics, blood perfusion examination. In       particular, the emerging T1 mapping and Feature Tracking (FT) techniques enable the early and       quantitive identification of cardiac dysfunction prior to abnormal LVEF. It has been found       that the Extracellular Volume Fraction (ECV) based on T1 mapping and the myocardial strain       parameters based on FT have the ability to diagnose and predict the prognosis of HFpEF       patients. Echocardiography takes advantages in early identification of HFpEF patients and       reveals the diastolic dysfunction. Nuclear medicine imaging shows priorities in blood       perfusion and myocardial viability verification. Magnetic resonance imaging -       echocardiography - nuclear medicine multimodal imaging complements and promotes each other,       for example, molecular nuclear medicine imaging (recognition of metabolism), echocardiography       (primary selection and determination of diastolic dysfunction), as well as the noninvasive       high-resolution magnetic resonance and new emerging molecular imaging (identification of       macroscopic, microscopic structure and function). The multimodel imaging overcomes the limits       of single imaging method, greatly improves the accuracy of early diagnosis ability and       diagnosis. However, large studies are based on single-center studies and meta analysis of       small samples, and the comprehensive markers derived from multimodel study and multicenter       study are lacked. Domestic relevant studies are in the initial stage.        To sum up, this study attempts to achieve early diagnosis and intervention of HFpEF and       improve life quality of HFpEF patients through a multicenter, large sample cooperative study       based on multimodel imaging (CMR imaging, echocardiography, nuclear medicine imaging). This       study is expected to deepen the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiological       characteristic of HFpEF, providing a set of parameters based on multimodel imaging, hence       assisting in early identification of cardiac structure and function change, early diagnosis       of HFpEF and achieving risk stratification. In other way, the marker derived from this study       may help target treatment of HFpEF.
Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) is a special subtype of Heart Failure       (HF), and the incidence of HF cases is rising to 4.5 million every year, according to       "Chinese cardiovascular disease report 2018" and "China Heart Failure and diagnostic       guidelines 2018". In 2000, the incidence of patients with chronic Heart Failure is as high as       0.9%, and faces significant increase with the increase of age. Moreover, HFpEF patients       accounted for over 50% of HF, presenting normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF),       and nonspecific HF clinical performance. In addition, as a heterogenous disease, HFpEF is       often associated with various comorbidities, including hypertension (~ 75%), diabetes (~       40%), obesity (> 80%), aging (~ 75 years), renal dysfunction (25-50%), pulmonary hypertension       (~ 50%), and other diseases. There is still much confusion about the pathophysiology of the       disease, and no effective treatment was confirmed, therefore the diagnosis and treatment of       HFpEF has some challenges. With the increase of cardiovascular risk factors such as       hypertension (morbidity: 23.2% in 2018), diabetes (morbidity:10.9% in 2018, treatment rate       32.2%) and the aging trend, the morbidity and mortality of HFpEF are still on the rise,       posing a threat to the life quality of more and more patients. Early identification and       intervention of HFpEF is an important method to reduce mortality and improve prognosis. Yet,       many studies have explored the role of different biochemical and inflammatory markers in the       diagnosis and prognosis assessment of HFpEF, limited for mixed indicators and low       sensitivity.        Cardiac Magnetic Resonance imaging (CMR) is a non-invasive "one-stop" examination, including       cardiac structure, function, tissue characteristics, blood perfusion examination. In       particular, the emerging T1 mapping and Feature Tracking (FT) techniques enable the early and       quantitive identification of cardiac dysfunction prior to abnormal LVEF. It has been found       that the Extracellular Volume Fraction (ECV) based on T1 mapping and the myocardial strain       parameters based on FT have the ability to diagnose and predict the prognosis of HFpEF       patients. Echocardiography takes advantages in early identification of HFpEF patients and       reveals the diastolic dysfunction. Nuclear medicine imaging shows priorities in blood       perfusion and myocardial viability verification. Magnetic resonance imaging -       echocardiography - nuclear medicine multimodal imaging complements and promotes each other,       for example, molecular nuclear medicine imaging (recognition of metabolism), echocardiography       (primary selection and determination of diastolic dysfunction), as well as the noninvasive       high-resolution magnetic resonance and new emerging molecular imaging (identification of       macroscopic, microscopic structure and function). The multimodel imaging overcomes the limits       of single imaging method, greatly improves the accuracy of early diagnosis ability. However,       large studies are based on small samples, and the comprehensive markers derived from       large-scale study are lacked. Domestic relevant studies are in the initial stage.        To sum up, this study attempts to achieve early diagnosis and intervention of HFpEF and       improve life quality of HFpEF patients through a large-scale study based on multimodel       imaging (CMR imaging, echocardiography, nuclear medicine imaging). This study is expected to       deepen the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiological characteristic of HFpEF,       providing a set of parameters based on multimodel imaging. Hence, assisting in early       identification of cardiac structure and function change, early diagnosis of HFpEF and       achieving risk stratification. In other way, the marker derived from this study may help       target treatment of HFpEF.
Pain represents a sensorial experience in response to tissue damage, that does not only       affects the emotional and functional domains of an individual, but also leads to multiple       detrimental, unanticipated and long-lasting consequences. In fact, pain has been associated       with cognitive disturbances, increase in cancer recurrence, impairment in brain development       and impairment of the immune system. Pain associated with surgical stress delays       postoperative ambulation and discharge, promotes the development of chronic postoperative       pain, and increases morbidity and mortality.        Despite the advancement in analgesics and pain control modalities, severe postoperative pain       is present in up to 40% of patients. Improved pain management based on an accurate assessment       of patients' pain intensity has been associated with better patient outcomes. As a       consequence, standardized, validated instruments to facilitate pain evaluation have been       recommended by the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Task Force on Acute Pain       Management. Self-report scales, behavioral scales and physiological measures have been       developed to assess pain after surgery. These tools, however, are applicable only in awake,       cooperative patients and have limited value in uncooperative and non-verbal patients, such as       young children.        In recent years, investigations have focused on parasympathetic tone activity as an indirect       assessment of the level of pain. While heart rate variability (HRV) is affected by the       balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic tone, the high frequency changes of HRV is       primarily mediated by and specific to the parasympathetic nervous system. The phenomena of       pain, fear, anxiety and intraoperative nociception have proven to be accompanied by changes       in HRV. In pediatric patients, HRV analysis correlates with prolonged pain and newborn       comfort.        The newborn infant parasympathetic evaluation (NIPE) is a non-invasive, standardized       continuous measurement of HRV. The cardiac signal is extrapolated from the electrocardiogram       and respiratory rate (RR) series are computed between two heart beats, resampled at 8 Hz,       mean centered and normalized over a 64-second moving window. A wavelet based high pass filter       over 0.15 Hz is applied in order to keep parasympathetic related variations only, which are       mainly influenced by the respiratory cycle. The NIPE monitor displays two averaged       measurements: the average NIPE (NIPEa) results from the average of NIPE measured over the       previous 20 minutes, and current NIPE (NIPEc) results from the average of NIPE measured over       the previous 64 seconds. A non-disclosed algorithm derived from the high frequency changes of       the HRV calculates a score between 0 and 100, where a score of 0 indicates minimal       parasympathetic tone and maximal nociception and a score of 100 indicates maximal       parasympathetic tone and minimal nociception.        The NIPE index is a modification of Analgesia Nociception Index (ANI) and was developed for       infants and young children who have higher baseline HR resulting in a lower possible       variability. The ANI has shown a good performance in predicting intraoperative nociceptive       stimuli in animals, adults7, and older children. In adults, ANI was able to predict the       incidence of moderate/severe pain postoperatively and in critically ill patients.        To date, NIPE has shown promising results in the assessment of intraoperative and procedural       pain, and neonatal comfort. On the contrary, there is a paucity of literature examining the       usefulness of NIPE in guiding postoperative pain management in young children.        The current standard of care relies on scales incorporating various behavioural parameters to       evaluate the likelihood of pain and the need for analgesic medication. The most commonly used       scales in preschool children, who are not able to complete self-assessments, are the       Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale (CHEOPS), the Face, Legs, Activity, Cry and       Consolability Scale (FLACC), and the Children and Infants' Postoperative Pain Scale (CHIPPS).       These scales are limited in their dependence on examiner's ability to use the tool and       training. Recently, the Pediatric Critical-Care Pain Observation Tool (P-CPOT) has been       validated in critically ill children, but no data on postsurgical pediatric patients has been       published.        The postoperative pain assessment in small children may be confused with Emergence Delirium       (ED), an anesthesia related complication that affects 25% children undergoing surgery. ED is       associated with significant adverse effects including injury to the patient and personnel,       damage to incision sites, exacerbated parental anxiety, and increased nursing requirements,       further resulting in an increased burden and cost to the healthcare system. Once ED occurs,       extra nursing care may be necessary, as well as supplemental sedative and/or analgesic       medications, which may delay patient discharge. Children showing ED after anaesthesia are       seven times more likely to have new-onset separation anxiety, apathy, eating and sleeping       problems. To date, only the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium (PAED) scale has been       validated in the pediatric population, but its capability to discriminate between ED and pain       has been recently questioned.        In the absence of appropriate diagnostic tools, the management of pain or emergence delirium       may be delayed while attempting to treat the other possible confounding conditions that may       similarly occur in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU).
The objective of this study is to describe, in a population of patients who had a primary       prevention ICD indication at first implantation of a CRT-D, the relevance defibrillator       back-up after the replacement of the first CRT-D. For that, the rate of patients with at       least one sustained VTA detected by the CRT-D or a conventional surface ECG will be assessed       after the device replacement.        Furthermore, the association between the baseline characteristics of the CRT-D population       after replacement and the risk of subsequent VTA will be explored after a minimum of two       years FU.
One Hospital ClinicalService is a project aiming to provide information and analysis of       clinical and device data, back to the treating healthcare providers regarding their own       patients, in order to help those healthcare providers improve outcomes and understanding of       their patients' care or patients' management.        The mission of the One Hospital ClinicalService Project is to improve outcomes and       comprehension of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies applied to patients wearing Medtronic       implantable devices or treated by Medtronic therapies. One Hospital ClinicalService provides       services to evaluate and improve the quality of clinical care in the International clinical       practice.        One Hospital ClinicalService collects acute and chronic patient and device data in a large       population during routine usage of the device, without specific study interventions, and       always within the approved intended use of the device.        One Hospital ClinicalService uses a core database which can be expanded with specific data       sets for particular patient populations, diseases, therapies, devices or features.        One Hospital ClinicalService, with its prospective data collection and its data management       infrastructure, forms a data-bank where physicians collect patient data and from which they       receive reports about clinical and device diagnostics data. Usage and understanding of       diagnostics data may help physicians to optimize tailor device programming and patient       therapies. This data-bank, queried by retrospective statistical analyses, may help physicians       in quality improvement activities, education, research and scientific activities.        Some examples of scientific focus available through the One Hospital ClinicalService Project       include:          -  Describing the use of implantable devices, such as cardioverter defibrillator (ICD),            pacemakers, implantable loop recorders or others in the Italian clinical practice          -  Identifying predictors or clinical variables correlated with clinical outcomes or            therapy response          -  Evaluating and testing methods to optimize device programming and patient therapy via            device diagnostics or patient reports
Inflammatory bowel diseases or IBD (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis) are chronic       inflammatory diseases involving the digestive tract, in particular the small bowel and/or the       recto-colon. IBD represent a public health problem in Gastroenterology. The etiopathogeny of       IBD is multifactorial involving immunological, genetic, infectious and environmental factors.       An overarching hypothesis is that an unbalance of the autonomic nervous system, represented       by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system (e.g. the vagus nerve) is part of the       mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of IBD. A dysautonomia has been observed in IBD       patients and we have recently demonstrated that this dysautonomia was linked to psychological       coping, in particular in Crohn's disease. Classically, the vagus nerve, a mixed nerve, has an       anti-inflammatory role through its central afferents which secondarily stimulate the       hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis. Recent data have shown that the anti-inflammatory       properties of the vagus nerve also involve peripheral efferents via an interaction of       acetylcholine with nicotinic receptors leading to an inhibition of TNF release by       macrophages. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is currently used for the treatment of some forms       of epilepsy in Human via a stimulation of vagal afferents. We have recently validated a model       of chronic VNS (3h/d for 5 days) in freely moving rats by stimulating vagal efferents and we       have studied the anti-inflammatory properties of VNS in an experimental model of colitis in       rats. VNS significantly decreased body weight loss due to colitis and had an       anti-inflammatory effect by decreasing a multivariate index of inflammation. To date, medical       treatment of IBD (e.g. 5-aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, immunosuppressives or       biotherapies i.e. anti-TNF) is only suspensive. The aim of our project is to propose another       type of anti-inflammatory treatment based on neurostimulation of vagal efferents. For this       purpose, we aim to perform a pilot study in 10 patients with moderate to severe Crohn's       disease despite a reference treatment (corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressives) using the       anti-inflammatory properties of VNS as an alternative to anti-TNF therapy. Central and       peripheral effect of VNS will be also evaluated by electroencephalographic and sympatho-vagal       (heart rate variability) recordings. The finality, at term, is to use VNS as an alternative       to the conventional anti-TNF therapy not devoid of side effects, in particular infectious,       with the advantage to use an intrinsic anti-inflammatory (anti-TNF) system and to take cover       of problems of adherence to treatment which are frequently observed in the medical treatment       of IBD.
Study Design The CLEVER-TAVR cohort (Cerebral Lesion and Neurocognitive Status Changes after       Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement) is a multicenter prospective observational study.       Patients with aortic stenosis who successfully undergo TAVR procedure from January 2021 to       December 2021 will be enrolled in this study according to the inclusion criteria.       Preoperative cognitive function, DW-MRI evaluation and baseline data will be recorded. All       patients should be followed up for 1 year, including telephone follow-up once a month to       record the main end-point events, and clinic follow-up at 30, 90, 180, 360 days after TAVR.       Laboratory examination, electrocardiogram, color Doppler ultrasound and other examinations       will be collected and recorded. The changes of cognitive function and brain imaging (DW-MRI)       will be evaluated before discharge(7 days), 30, 90, 180, 360 days after procedure. The       primary endpoint will be major adverse cardiovascular and cerebral events(MACCE), including       all-cause death, stroke, acute kidney injury, myocardial infarction, bleeding complications,       vascular complications, permanent pacemaker implantation, conduction block and arrhythmia,       valve related complications. The postoperative valve function, life quality and other       complications related to TAVR will also be recorded.
nan
nan
TAVI (Transcatheter aortic valve Implantation) - A viable alternative to surgical aortic       valve replacement for patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis.        Considered as being at unacceptable surgical risk. Despite its widespread utilization, there       are procedure specific complications and hospitalization associated costs that limit TAVI       expansion into patient populations with lower risk.        Cost-effectiveness of TAVI has been investigated either compared with standard therapy for       patients who are not candidates for surgical valve replacement or with conventional surgical       replacement in high-risk patients.        Formal economic evaluation in inoperable patients demonstrated that the benefits of TAVI were       achieved at an acceptable incremental cost to society, at least in the context of the U.S.       and U.K. health systems.        In patients with severe, symptomatic AS who are at high but not prohibitive surgical risk,       the PARTNER A trial demonstrated that TAVI appeared to be an economically attractive strategy       compared with aortic valve replacement, provided that patients are suitable for a       transfemoral approach. On the other hand, results for trans-apical TAVI compared with       surgical replacement were economically unfavorable.
To collect real-world (post-approval use) data regarding the clinical utility and performance       of the Medtronic CoreValve® System for TAVI in patients with failing surgical aortic       bioprosthesis who are at high risk for redo surgery.
The most widely used transcatheter device for ASD closure is the the Amplatzer Septal       Occluder (ASO). Two new devices that entered the Canadian market are the Gore Cardioform ASD       occluder (GAO) and the Figulla Flexible II Occlutech (FSO) device. There exists a paucity of       data on the comparative efficacy and safety of these devices. This is a proposal, for the       first time in Canada, to examine the comparative effectiveness of three commercially       available ASD devices in an internal pilot randomized trial.        Approximately 60 patients referred for transcatheter ASD closure will be recruited in this       study over a period of 15 months from 4 participating centers across Canada. This will be a       registry-based randomized controlled trial (RRCT) where patients will be enrolled into one of       three arms (ASO, FSO, and GAO/GSO) to compare the effectiveness and safety outcomes of three       different ASD closure devices.
This study will evaluate the use of an occlusion balloon (Bridge™ Occlusion Balloon,       Spectranetics) within the Superior Vena Cava in lead extraction patients. This will be       performed in a non-emergent setting to allow for evaluation of how best to integrate this new       technology into the investigators clinical practice. The study will focus on the effect of       the Bridge balloon on the patient preparation clinical workflow, ease of       insertion/positioning/deployment, and the ability to recognize proper inflation and vein       sealing under fluoroscopy. Understanding these factors will help build a more robust clinical       workflow with the goal of better patient outcomes in the case of an Superior Vena Cava       injury. The images and data generated during this study can help in dissemination of the       practical use knowledge to fellow lead extractors.        At the time of the protocol registration, the timeframe 12 months was entered, this was       actually the anticipated length of the study at registration. The timeframe was corrected to       33 minutes (average time) at the time of results entry.
The objective of the study is to assess the utility of ECG Belt to understand the conduction       and ECG characteristics of LBBP and HOT-CRT and compare with preexisting data in traditional       CRT and RVP.        Specific Objective:          -  To demonstrate and establish electrical resynchronization using ECG Belt Research System            in Left Bundle Branch Pacing (LBBP) and HOT-CRT.          -  To assess ECG Belt derived native conduction parameters and compare them to LBBP and            HOT-CRT.          -  To compare with historic ECG belt parameters obtained for right ventricular pacing/            Biventricular pacing in prior studies.        The ECG Belt study is a prospective, single-center, investigational, pre-market research       study. The study team will identify all patients who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion       criteria. The study team will evaluate the ECG Belt Research System to assess the electrical       characteristics of conduction system pacing in patients with preexisting LBBP or HOT-CRT.        Eligible patients would have successfully undergone LBBP using Medtronic 3830 lead. LBBP will       be confirmed at implant using left bundle potentials recorded from the lead, ECG morphology       during unipolar and bipolar pacing, peak LV activation time and lead depth in the LV septum       by contrast at implant and 2D echo post-implant.        ECG belt would be used to record ECG during baseline rhythm, LBBP in unipolar and bipolar       configurations and / or during HOT-CRT using His-Bundle Pacing (HBP) or LBBP. These ECG belt       characteristics would then be compared with baseline and existing data on Right Ventricular       RV pacing and traditional Biventricular pacing.
Study design The study is designed post-marketing, prospective, multicenter, randomized and       blind for the patient and for the Core-laboratory of the echocardiogram (ECO) department. Has       this design is post- marketing since it is a sanitary product with European Committee (CE)       marking that is already commercialized and will be used in the study according to its       instructions for use. Is a blind study since neither the participant subject nor the       Core-laboratory of the ECO (person in charge to assess the main variable of the study) know       the treatment that has been randomized the subject, it is a randomized study because the       group assignment of each subject is done randomly 1:1.        Study evaluation Evaluation of the risk and benefits of the study: The following will be       taking into account          1. Expected clinical benefits:               -  Stimulation function with the SyncAV algorithm is expected increase the rate of                 responders to therapy.               -  These two methods improve function VI (ventricle left) and it is believed that this                 additional improvement of the VI function could benefit patients who do not respond                 to BiV conventional stimulation.          2. Expected adverse effects of the product: bleeding/acute hemorrhage, gas aeration,            acceleration of arrythmias, cysts formation, erosion,exacerbation of cardiac            insufficiency, venous or cardiac perforation, excessive fibrous tissue development,            bruising, histotoxic reactions, infection, keloid formation, myocardial irritability,            infection, hematoma, excessive bleeding, local tissue reaction, loss of stimulation            and/or detection due to migration or mechanical malfunction, myocardial irritability,            stimulation of the nerve, etc. All those events are inherent to the implant of the            device for cardiac resynchronization therapy          3. Risk associated with participation in this clinical trial: It is expected that the risks            associated with the use of the SyncAVTM stimulation algorithm be comparable to the risks            associated with other types of ventricular pacing, and therefore, the risks associated            with the use of the stimulation algorithm are expected SyncAVTM will not differ from the            risks associated with the different modes of Conventional stimulation available.            Patients will be included in the study after the successful implantation of a CRT            device, whose indication will be made clinically based on the guidelines current            clinical practice of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC).          4. Possible interactions with concomitant medical treatments and / or Simultaneous medical            interventions:        No interaction with concomitant pharmacological treatments and / or medical interventions       simultaneous, apart from those that occur in the usual treatment with any CRT device. All       participants will be candidates for the implantation of a CRT device and will be included in       the clinical study once the device has been implanted successfully.        Main Valuation criterion:        The main endpoint of the study is to determine if there are differences significant       differences between conventional BiV stimulation and ventricular pacing with fusion using the       SyncAVTM algorithm in terms of the percentage of patients responders to CRT therapy        The positive response to CRT is defined as an improvement> 15% in the Systolic Volume End in       the Left Ventricle (VSFVI) 6 months after implantation, evaluated by echocardiography.        ▪ Secondary rating criterion The secondary endpoints of this study are differences between:          -  Inverse remodeling of the VI, measured as the changes in the interval (VTSVI), Volume            Telediastolic Left Ventricle (VTDVI), Telesystolic Diameter Left Ventricle (DTSVI),            Telediastolic Diaphragm of the Left Ventricle (DTDVI) and Left Ventricular Ejection            Fraction (LVEF) at 6 months, in comparison with the Basal situation without stimulation.          -  Comparison of the aforementioned echocardiographic parameters with the cohort of            patients stratified according to the etiology (ischemic patients versus to non-ischemic            patients): or The percentage of super-responder patients * at 6 months. or dyssynchrony            measured by the rate of deformation (echocardiography with the speckle tracking            technique ) between the anteroseptal segment and the posterior wall (if available). or            Electrode position VI: o Short axis (posterolateral, lateral, anterolateral). o Long            axis (apical, midventricular, Basal).          -  New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class Change at 6 months.          -  Mortality from any cause after 6 months.          -  Hospitalization rate for any cause, due to cardiovascular causes and / or heart failure,            at 6 months.          -  Combined mortality and hospitalization variable for heart failure a 6 months          -  Quality of life variable according to Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ)-12            survey          -  % auricular fibrilation (FA) (no patients / FA load)        SAFETY ASSESSMENT The safety of the stimulation algorithms will be evaluated by collecting       and registering of any dysfunction, alteration of the features or performance of the product       that could or could have led to the death or serious deterioration of the state of health of       a patient or a user. Therefore, safety has as an evaluation criterion the Record and analyze       the frequency and intensity of adverse incidents that occur throughout the study. For the       evaluation of safety, the Population of Security (PS).        Evaluation of effectiveness The superior efficacy of CRT with ventricular stimulation with       fusion through SyncAVTM algorithm versus CRT with conventional BiV stimulation will be       studied comparing the results of the stimulation logarithms between the two branches of the       study (stimulation by SyncAVTM algorithm and conventional BiV stimulation).The ultimate goal       of the study is to determine the percentage of responding patients and not respondents The       response of patients to CRT will be evaluated taking into account the reduction of VSFVI.       Patients will be classified as responders. have documented a reduction in VSFVI of at least       15% compared to the data collected in the Basal situation without stimulation. The evaluation       of the effectiveness will be analyzed with the Population of Intent to Treat (ITT) and       Population by Protocol (PP).        Sample size The calculation of the sample size is based on the main variable: the proportion       of responders to CRT at 6 months with the SyncAV function activated at the start of the       study.        The main variable of the study is the response to re-synchronization, understood as a       dichotomous variable that takes the values: Yes / No. In the study there will be two       randomization groups, and the response rate of the control group is set at 65% of the       patients, while that of the study group will be 77%, that is, 12% higher. As statistical       criteria for the estimation of the sample size, it was used a confidence level of 95%, a       margin of non-inferiority δ = 0 and a power a priori of 80%. The statistical technique used       for the analysis of the main variable is a test χ 2        The formula used to calculate the sample size is as follows (Chow, Shao and Wang, 2008): In       addition, it is assumed that 5% of patients may be lost due to loss of follow-up and 8% due       to exitus. For the calculation of the sample size, the R-studio software (version 1.0.153).       Applying the formula, the sample size is 77 patients per group, that is, a total of 154       patients. However, 22 more must be added (11 more patients in each group) due to possible       loss of follow-up and due to death.        Considering all the above information, the expected sample size is of 176 patients, 88       patients would be randomized to the control group and 88 to the group of study.        Using an exact binomial test of a unilateral sample, with a level of significance of 95%, a       total of 176 patients would be necessary to reach a 80% power.        To detect a difference of 12% between the two responder rates, it is It is necessary that a       total of 176 patients have analysable data at 6 months.        Based on clinical experience, it is assumed that some patients will abandon the study (5%       during the first 6 months of implantation, 8% due to exitus)        STATISTICAL ANALYSIS        Statistical design, hypothesis, method and analytical procedures:        The analysis of the main variable will be based on the intention to treat principle (ITT),       including all deviations from the Protocol. There will also be a secondary analysis per       Protocol (PP), excluding all deviations of the Protocol. If the results obtained in these       analyzes were different, an exploration of the data will be done in search of the reasons. In       the analysis of the main variable will be evaluated the following hypothesis of inequality:          -  H0: Proportion of responders at 6 months with ventricular stimulation with fusion using            SyncAVTM algorithm <Proportion ofResponders at 6 months with conventional BiV            stimulation.          -  H1: Proportion of responders at 6 months with ventricular stimulation with fusion using            the SyncAVTM algorithm > Proportion ofResponders at 6 months with conventional BiV            stimulation.        All results will be expressed according to the corresponding intervals confidence of 97.5%       and the values p. P values less than 2.5% are will consider significant.
Type III collagen abundantly exists in the cardiovascular system including the aorta and       heart. The aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) is an extension peptide       of type III procollagen, which is cleaved off stoichiometrically during conversion from type       III procollagen to type III collagen and liberated to serum. Elevated serum concentrations of       PIIINP are considered a marker of higher collagen turnover and tissue fibrosis including the       heart and vascular system. In this study, the investigators prospectively examined whether       serum levels of PIIINP could be a biomarker for predicting cardiovascular events in       hemodialysis patients.
Perimembranous Ventricular septal defect (VSD) is the most common congenital cardiac       malformation and constitutes over 20% of all congenital cardiac disease. Though conventional       surgery for VSD is a widely accepted procedure with minimal operative mortality, it carries a       small but definite risk of morbidity and mortality associated with cardiopulmonary bypass and       surgical closure. The newly appeared transcatheter device closure technique provides an       alternative to surgical closure. However, the mid-to-long term effects of this technique       using occluders is not clear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and       effectiveness of transcatheter closure of perimembranous ventricular septal defects using       septal occluders.
The Guidant ASSURE device is a fully featured pacemaker with additional atrial and       ventricular tachyarrhythmia therapy features. The REASSURE AV study is a clinical evaluation       to support approval of these features. This clinical study is intended to provide adequate       performance data on two atrial tachyarrhythmia management features, namely the ATS and atrial       ATP. In addition data will be collected to verify that the ventricular tachyarrhythmia rescue       shock feature performs as intended in the clinical setting in combination with other       pacemaker functions.
"Silent" stroke post-TAVR presents as asymptomatic brain ischemic lesions detected on       diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI), with an incidence ranging from 60% to       100% in different studies. On the contrary, hemorrhagic lesions are not systematically       studied given the poor visualization of small hemorrhage (i.e. microbleeds) on traditional       T1, T2 or DW-MRI sequences. We have previously identified an incidence of new brain       microbleeds early after TAVR of 100% with the routine use of susceptibility-weighted imaging       (SWI). We hypothesize that new brain microbleeds are prevalent in patients with aortic       stenosis after either TAVR or SAVR. The key objective of this registry is to evaluate the       incidence, distribution and clinical impact of new brain microbleeds after transfemoral TAVR       in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis, in comparison with SAVR.
Introduction and aim of study:        Head and neck cancer (HNC) continues to be a significant health care problem in Taiwan and       oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the common subtype. With the concern of organ       preservation in recent years, concurrent chemoradiation is the major treatment modality for       oropharyngeal SCC. Hence, accurate tumor anatomic and biologic evaluations are warranted for       pretreatment planning, posttreatment monitoring and prognosis determination. Endoscopy with       biopsy serve as the main diagnostic tools in patients with oropharyngeal SCC. While computed       tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are commonly used to evaluate the tumor       extent of HNC, MRI is more preferred in the oropharyngeal area by virtue of its high contrast       resolution, particularly in detecting perineural invasion. Whole body MRI is now feasible and       thus distant site status of HNC can be evaluated in the single examination session. FDG-       positron emission tomography/CT (PET /CT) is another common imaging modality to evaluate HNC.        According to the investigators' experience in patients with head and neck cancer, MRI and       PET/CT have different advantages over each other and may complement to each other. In       evaluating primary tumor status, the high spatial and contrast resolution of MRI can       delineate the tumor extent from surrounding normal tissue in the complex head and neck       anatomical region, while delineation of FDG-positive tissue by PET may help differentiation       tumor growth from surrounding noncancerous tissue, particularly in irradiated bed. In       evaluating regional nodal status, MRI is superior to PET/CT in detecting retropharyngeal or       cystic necrotic metastatic adenopathy, whereas PET/CT excels MRI in detecting metastasis in       sub-centimeter nodes. The combined use of MRI and PET can clearly demonstrate the patterns of       nodal spread.[7]. Regards to the evaluation of the distant sites, whole body MRI is better in       detecting metastatic lesion in high metabolic organs such as brain, liver or spleen, while       PET/CT is superior in detecting those metastatic lesions in the curved, flat bones, and       second primary bowel tumor such as esophagus cancer or colon cancer.        Currently, diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI) and dynamic contrast-enhanced perfusion       weighted imaging (DCE-PWI) become clinically feasible to assess the functional aspects of       HNC. The quantified parameter of DWI sequence is apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) that       relates to cellularity. DCE-PWI provides the volume transfer rate constant (Ktrans), relative       extravascular extracellular space (Ve) and relative vascular plasma volume (Vp) as well as       the efflux rate constant (Kep). These functional MRI techniques may provide biologic       information, such as cellularity, angiogenesis and permeability. On the other hand, PET can       provide its metabolic quantified parameters: standardized uptake value (SUV) that reflects       glucose metabolism, metabolic tumor volume (MTV) that reflects tumor burden, and total lesion       glycolysis (TLG) that integrates both glucose metabolism and tumor burden. These MRI and PET       functional parameters appear promising for predicting chemoradiation response and prognosis       of HNC. In our previous studies of oropharyngeal or hypopharyngeal SCC patients, Ktrans of       the primary tumor was the only imaging parameter associated with local control, while ADC and       Ve values of the neck metastatic nodes were independent prognostic factors for neck control.       The maximal SUV of the regional lymph nodes was significantly associated with the occurrence       of distant metastasis. TLG were significantly associated with overall survival.        Integrated PET/MRI is a novel imaging technology introduced into the clinical practice. The       combination of PET and MRI in one single, hybrid scanner is promising. Initial data convey       that PET/MRI performed favorably for HNC. It showed good diagnostic capability similar to       PET/CT and can serve as a legitimate alternative to PET/CT in the clinical workup of patients       with HNC. The metabolic ratios measured PET/MRI showed excellent agreement with those on       standard PET/CT. PET/MRI incorporating the Dixon sequence for attenuation correction purposes       yielded similar SUV values when compared to PET/CT.Nevertheless, most studies were limited in       number of cases or no particular tumor entity was specifically analyzed, which somewhat       weakened their power in terms of evidence-based medicine. In addition, the predictive value       of PET/MRI in treatment outcome of HNC has not been reported. A prospective study of PET/MRI       in a large cohort of patients with specific tumor origin and uniform treatment protocol would       complement these pioneering efforts to fully validate the clinical usefulness of the novel       integrated system.        Recently, integrated PET/MRI scanner (Biograph mMR, Siemens) has been installed in our       hospital. In this scanner, the PET detectors are fully integrated into the 3 Tesla MR system       with one single gantry, enabling simultaneous acquisition of both PET and MR data. Before its       wide practical use, its clinical usefulness should be explicitly defined. In this research       project, the investigators will investigate our 150 patients with oropharyngeal SCC subjected       to chemoradiation with FDG-PET/MRI. Non-contrast chest CT will also be performed on the same       day. The investigators have the following aims:        Aim 1: to determine whole-body staging/restaging MRI and PET/CT have different advantages       over each other, and visual correlation of these separate imaging modalities can yield a       slightly higher diagnostic capability. However, some lesions may not be matched well for each       other because of different examination date and positioning. Therefore, the investigators       believe that tumor involvement should be made more accurately with simultaneously acquired       PET/MRI imaging, leading to more accurate tumor staging/restaging, and in turn, to more       precise treatment planning and better treatment outcome. However, the data of integrated       PET/MRI for whole whole-body staging/restaging on oropharyngeal SCC are still unavailable       currently. In this prospective project, the investigators aim to determine the feasibility       and clinical impact of integrated PET/MRI in tumor staging and restaging of oropharyngeal SCC        Aim 2. to predict treatment response and prognosis Functional MRI parameters and FDG-PET/CT       parameters can be quantified and have been used for predicting response to chemoradiation in       HNC. However, variable results had been obtained, mainly due to different tumor origins,       sample sizes, methodologies, and treatment protocols. Another important confounding factor is       that MRI and PET/CT were done at different time intervals. Because integrated PET/MRI can       provide simultaneous PET and MR functional data that allow for direct comparison in the       selected regions of interest, and thus should be more accurate and more reproducible.       However, the predictive values of simultaneous functional PET/MRI techniques in oropharyngeal       SCC have not been reported till now. On the other hand, DWI with intravoxel incoherent motion       (IVIM ) technique can quantify both molecular diffusion and microcirculation in the capillary       network that may be useful for predicting tumor chemoradiosensitivity, while DWI with       kurtosis (biexponential or non-Gaussian fitting) modeling has been documented to yield a       better fit of the in vivo water molecule diffusion than does that with monoexponential       modeling[32]. In this research project, the investigators added functional MRI sequences as       parts of PET/MRI procedures, including DCE-PWI as well as dedicated DWI that can yield       monoexponential DWI, IVIM and Kurtosis data. We aim to obtain MRI and PET functional results       on integrated PET/MRI system in the single imaging session in the patient cohort of       oropharyngeal SCC uniformly treated with chemoradiation. The investigators expected that the       predictive values of the various functional parameters of integrated PET/ MRI can be more       clearly elucidated.        Aim 3. to determine necessity of noncontrast chest CT. One of the concerns of replacing the       CT portion of PET/CT with MRI is the ability of MRI to depict and differentiate lung nodules,       while the most common location for distant metastases of HNC is lung. According to the       investigators' previous study, the CT component of integrated PET/CT can improve not only the       specificity but also the sensitivity of FDG-PET data. In addition, CT also help to lessen PET       false-positive findings in calcified mediastinal nodal disease, such as anthracosis. However,       on the other hand, the investigators' previous studies showed the detection rates of       pulmonary metastases with 3.0-T MRI using half-Fourier acquisition single-shot turbo       spin-echo (HASTE), volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination (VIBE) and short τ       inversion recovery (STIR) sequences were similar to those of PET/CT. One recent study has       shown that radial VIBE free-breathing MRI with simultaneously acquired PET data has high       sensitivity in the detection of nodules with a diameter of at least 0.5 cm, but has limited       sensitivity in the detection of small or non-FDG-avid nodules. Considering the limited data       on PET/MR in detecting lung malignant lesion, the investigators aim to prospectively validate       the performance of our integrated PET/MRI protocol sequences for lung lesions by adding       noncontrast enhanced CT for comparison.        Material and methods:        In this three-year prospective project, a total of 160 patients with histologically proven       oropharyngeal SCC subjected to chemoradiation will be enrolled. Exclusion criteria include       previous head or neck malignant tumor, a second malignant tumor, distant metastasis,       contraindications to MRI (renal insufficiency, cochlear implant, cardiac pacemaker placement       or intracranial aneurysmal ferromagnetic clips), and serum glucose level >200 mg/dl. Before       pretreatment, each enrolled patients will undergo PET/MRI and detail clinical examination,       including human papillomavirus test. The participants will also undergo low dose chest CT on       the same day before PET/MRI. In the posttreatment period, baseline whole body MRI will be       obtained 3 months after chemoradiation. Thereafter, the patients will then be followed up       also with alternative extend-field CT and whole body MRI by every 6 months. If tumor       recurrence is confirmed or highly suspected, PET/MRI will also be performed for tumor       re-staging.        The three-years planning Adequate cases number and follow-up duration are essential for       statistical analysis and outcome determination of oropharyngeal SCC treated with       chemoradiation. The investigators plan to accomplish this study in 3 years. In the first       year, the works of the this project in the first year will: (1) design the data bank       categories; (2) set up the workflow and optimize the imaging protocols; (3) determine the       diagnostic capability of MRI component, PET component, integrated PET/MRI in tumor staging;       (4) determinate any added diagnostic value of noncontrast CT in integrated PET/MRI, and (5)       study the early treatment response and the patterns of residual tumor.        In the second year, the investigators will continue to the first-year works, and further       include the following works: (1) to determinate incidence and predictors of treatment failure       of oropharyngeal SCC, and (2) to study the patterns of treatment response and early       recurrence.        In the third year, the investigators will continue to do previous work and will also (1) get       sufficient sample size to perform statistical analysis of the relationship between the       imaging parameters and patient outcomes, (2) attain comprehensive imaging about patterns of       tumor recurrence and posttreatment changes/complications, (3) investigate to what extent       biologic imaging parameters may affect outcome and patient selection for chemoradiation, (4)       analysis the accuracy, pitfalls and cost effectiveness of the PET/MRI alone and PET/MRI with       noncontrast CT in evaluating in patients with oropharyngeal SCC.        PET/MRI protocol PET/MRI data will be acquired on the integrated PET/MRI scanner (Biograph       mMR, Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) , which acquires simultaneous PET and MR data       with a 3.0-T magnet. The examination protocol will combined a whole-body scan with a       dedicated examination of the head and neck area (Table 1). All patients will fast for 6 h       before the scan. At 50-70 min post injection of 370 MBq of FDG, the patient will be placed on       the PET/MRI scanner bed. After fast-view T1-weighted MR localizer sequence for scout imaging       and Dixon VIBE sequence for attenuation correction, a whole-body PET scan will be performed       in 5 bed positions to cover from the head to the proximal thigh, with an acquisition time of       4 min per bed position. Simultaneously, whole body MR image acquisition will be performed for       the corresponding 5 bed positions with the axial HASTE sequence and coronal STIR sequence as       well as the sagittal T1-weighted Turbo spine echo(TSE) and STIR sequence.        Afterwards, regional PET and MRI images will be simultaneously performed. Regional PET will       be performed with an acquisition time of 10 min, while a dedicated MRI of the head and neck       region will be acquired in the axial and coronal projections with T1-weighted TSE sequence       and T2-weighted TSE sequence with fat saturation. Axial DWI will be performed using a single       shot spin-echo echo-planar technique with modified Stejskal-Tanner diffusion gradient pulsing       scheme. A total of 10 b values will be used for the reconstruction of IVIM and kurtosis       imaging, which are: 0, 20, 40, 80, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1200, 1500 sec/mm2.        DCE-PWI at the head and neck region will be acquired by using a 3D T1-weighted spoiled       gradient-echo sequence. A spatial saturation slab will be implanted inferior to the acquired       region to minimize the inflow effect from the carotid arteries. Before the contrast agent       administration, baseline longitudinal relaxation time (T10) values will be calculated from       image acquired with different flip angles (4°, 8°, 15° and 25°). Then, the dynamic series       will be acquired using the same sequence with a 15° flip angle, after intravenous       administration of paramagnetic contrast agent at 3 ml/s. Thereafter, dedicated regional MRI       will be obtained with T1-weighted TSE sequence with fat saturation in the axial and coronal       projections. Finally, whole body axial VIBE with fat saturation will be performed. The total       acquisition time is about 42 min, and the mean in-room time for PET/MR will be approximately       60 min.        Non-enhanced low-dose CT Spiral low-dose CT without contrast material enhancement will be       performed before PET/MRI on the same examination day. Acquisition parameters include peak       voltage of 120 kVp, mAs of 50, collimation of 64x0.5 mm and reconstruction interval of 3-mm.        Data analysis and outcome determination Readers are aware that patients have oropharyngeal       SCC, and they will be blinded to the results of other studies and to PET/MR data. The PET,       MRI and lung CT images will be first interpreted independently. All images will be then       reviewed together and compared. A checklist of various distributions of tumor extension,       nodal spread and distant metastasis will be recorded. The clinical and imaging findings will       be discussed jointly by the Head-and-Neck research team. Endoscopic biopsy, ultrasonographic       guided fine needle aspiration or CT-guided biopsy will be performed in any lesions suspicion       for malignancy if possible. If biopsy of the lesion of interest is not feasible, or yields a       negative result, close clinical and imaging follow-up will be pursued. All patients will be       followed up for at least 12 months.        The clinical and functional imaging data will be collected and analyzed for predicting       treatment response and prognosis. For the diffusion MRI, regions of interest will be manually       placed on the lesions on ADC map to encompass as much of the solid tumor area as possible.       The signal intensities measured on the images acquired at different b-values S(b) will be       numerically fitted against the model, S(b)=S0 e-b*ADC, where S0 and Sb are signal intensities       at different b values, For IVIM imaging, the relationship between signal intensities and b       values can be expressed by the equation: Sb/S0 = (1-f )．exp(-bD) + f．exp[-b( D + D＊)] where f       is a microvascular volume fraction representing the fraction of the diffusion linked to       microcirculation, D represents pure diffusion coefficient, and D* is perfusion-related       incoherent microcirculation. For the DKI, the relationship between signal intensities and b       values can be expressed by the equation: ln[S(b)] = ln[S(0)] - b x Dapp + 1/6b2 x Dapp2 x       Kapp where S is the signal intensity (arbitrary units), b is the b-value (s/mm2), Dapp is the       apparent diffusion coefficient (10-3 mm2/s), and Kapp is the apparent kurtosis coefficient       denoting the deviation from a Gaussian distribution. The investigators will also perform       monoexponential fitting by using Kapp=0 in the equation, yielding ADCmono. For the DCE-PWI       MRI, the change in contrast agent concentration over time, Ct(t), will be determined in each       voxel in the tumor, and the compartmental tracer kinetic model will be applied to each voxel       by using an arterial input function, Cp(t), measured in each individual: Ct (t)=VpCp(t) +       Ktrans ∫0t Cp (t' ) exp(Ktrans(t-t') /Ve )dt' where t' is the time (in minutes) as an       integration variable, and Cp(t') is the concentration of contrast agent in the blood plasma       as a function of time. For PET imaging parameters, SUV and MTV of the target lesions will be       measured from attenuation-corrected 18F-FDG PET images by drawing the boundaries drawn large       enough to include the lesions. An SUV threshold of 2.5 will be used to delineate the MTV. The       TLG is calculated as the product of the mean SUV and the MTV.        Statistical Analysis        Using histological findings or follow-up data at 12 months as a standard of reference,       various imaging results will be classified as true-positive, true-negative, false-positive,       or false-negative. The diagnostic accuracies of MRI component, PET component, integrated       PET/MRI, chest CT alone, and PET/MRI plus chest CT will be calculated and compared with the       McNemar test. Their respective diagnostic performance will be determined with the areas under       the receiver-operating-characteristic curve. For treatment response evaluation and prognosis       prediction, logistic regression analyses will be used to identify the relationship between       clinical and imaging functional variables. The control and survival rates will be plotted       using the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences in positive and negative results will be       determined by log-rank test. All prognostic variables identified by univariate analysis will       be put into the multivariate model using the Cox proportional hazards model. The Spearman's       rank correlation coefficient will be used to investigate the correlations among the       variables. P values < 0.05 is considered statistically significant.
nan
The AcQMap Imaging and Mapping System® is intended for use in patients for whom       electrophysiology procedures have been prescribed.        When used with the AcQMap Catheters, the AcQMap System is intended to be used to reconstruct       the selected chamber from ultrasound data for purposes of visualizing the chamber anatomy and       displaying electrical impulses as either charge density-based or voltage-based maps of       complex arrhythmias that may be difficult to identify using conventional mapping systems       alone.        AND        When used with specified Patient Electrodes, the AcQMap System is intended to display the       position of the AcQMap Catheters and conventional electrophysiology (EP) catheters in the       heart.        OR        When used with conventional electrophysiology catheters, the AcQMap System provides       information about the electrical activity of the heart and about catheter location during the       procedure.
BACKGROUND Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multi-system neurodegenerative disease affecting a       subset of vulnerable cells in various brain structures, including brain stem nuclei.       Selective degeneration of dopamine (DA) producing neurons in the pars compacta of the       substantia nigra (SNc) is a key neuropathological feature in PD and gives rise to the       classical motor symptoms which can be symptomatically treated by dopamine replacement       therapy. Yet the link between DA and PD extends far beyond the motor system, pertaining to       core aspects of cognition that are supported by dopamine signalling: For instance, there is       converging evidence that reward computations and motivational drive are significantly       affected by PD and its dopaminergic treatment. Noradrenaline (NA) producing cells of the       pontine nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) are also affected in PD with early and severe       degeneration. Although the LC is the main source of NA in the brain, and NA has been shown to       be an important neuromodulator, it is unclear how neurodegeneration of the LC contributes to       motor and non-motor symptoms in PD.        PD and the dopaminergic system Several midbrain nuclei contain cell groups that synthesize       the neurotransmitter DA and project from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and SNc to cortical       areas and the striatum. It has recently been suggested that VTA and SNc have distinct roles       in reinforcement learning: dopamine bursts from VTA are thought to reinforce stimulus values,       while the SNc is specifically important for action values. Since PD preferentially affects       the ventral tier of the SNc leading to the motor symptoms, it has been hypothesized that       dopaminergic treatment leads to an "overdosing" of the less impaired pathways from VTA to       striatum.        PD and the noradrenergic system Parallel to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in SNc,       noradrenergic neurons in the pontine locus coeruleus (LC) exhibit Lewy pathology and undergo       a marked degeneration early on in PD which exceeds that of dopaminergic SNc neurons. The LC       is the largest source of noradrenaline (NA) to the brain, and exerts neuromodulatory effects       through extensive ascending projections to the entire cerebral cortex. The loss of NA       neuromodulation associated with PD might contribute to both motor and non-motor symptoms and       could potentially be a therapeutic target, however the effect and significance of NA       deficiency in PD pathogenesis is to date not fully understood. The LC is thought to be       involved in the modulation of attention and arousal and also in the processing of emotion.       The role of LC neurodegeneration and the resulting decrease in noradrenaline levels to the       pathophysiology of PD is not fully understood. However, a large number of studies in humans       and animals support a double role of noradrenergic cell loss in PD; a contribution to motor-       and non-motor symptoms as well as a facilitation of DA neurodegeneration.        AIMS The overall purpose of the study is to map structural and functional changes in the       subcortical dopaminergic and noradrenergic networks that mediate cognition, attention and       emotion in PD.        The study aims to:          -  Measure PD related neurodegeneration on 7T sMRI in ROIs corresponding to neuromodulatory            brainstem nuclei: Substantia nigra pars compacta, nigrosome-1, ventral tegmental area &            locus coeruleus          -  Predict disease severity by multivariate pattern of neurodegeneration measures in these            areas.          -  Map the relationship between the autonomic arousal response to arousing stimuli, neural            activity in the noradrenergic arousal network and the degree of neurodegeneration in            noradrenergic brain regions.          -  Investigate the effects of neurodegeneration in the core dopaminergic nuclei (SNc and            VTA) and dopaminergic medication on the midbrain striatal network mediating action-value            and stimulus-value learning.        HYPOTHESES        Structural changes of SN and LC integrity:          1. Participants with PD will have significantly decreased signal on MTw-imaging in the SN            and LC quantified as reduced contrast ratios in SN/cerebral peduncle and LC/pontine            tegmentum.          2. SN and LC volumes, calculated as the sum of supra-threshold voxels in the regions of SN            and LC, will be significantly decreased in participants with PD.          3. Accelerated iron accumulation in SN and nigrosome-1 will lead to an increased            hypointensity of the SN and a loss of a distinct nigrosome-1 region on SWI, R2* and QSM.          4. R2* and QSM values in SN on Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping will be significantly            higher in participants with PD.          5. Motor impairment (UPDRS-3 subscore) can be predicted by multivariate pattern analysis of            MTw- and SWI-images of the SN.          6. Measures of LC structural integrity will correlate with non-motor symptoms, specifically            apathy and depression.             Functional changes:          7. Participants with PD will have significantly decreased functional activation in a region            corresponding to the LC when exposed to arousing stimuli.          8. Functional activation in the LC will correlate with LC structural integrity.          9. Autonomic arousal responses (pupil response and skin conductance response) will            correlate with LC structural integrity and functional activation.         10. In healthy controls, there will be increased SN-dorsal striatal connectivity for action            value learning, increased VTA-ventral striatal connectivity for stimulus value learning.         11. In PD patients off their medication, there will be reduced SN-dorsal striatal            connectivity. This will impair action value learning while stimulus value learning will            only be mildly affected.         12. Dopaminergic medication restores dopamine levels in the dorsal striatum and "overdoses"            ventral striatum. Medication will restore (at least partially) SN-dorsal striatal            connectivity and dorsal striatal activity which will lead to largely unimpaired action            value learning. "Overdosing" will result in exaggerated VTA-ventral striatal            connectivity and exaggerated ventral striatal activity. In subjects with strong ventral            striatal "overdosing" inappropriate stimulus value learning might occur.        RESEARCH PLAN Part 1: 7T and 3T structural MRI to map structural changes in SN and LC and       their clinical correlates in PD.        Participants: 60 patients with idiopathic PD (aged 18 or more), 20 age-matched healthy       control subjects.        Ultra-high field MRI. All participants will be scanned using a research-only 7T Achieva MR       System (Philips, Best, The Netherlands) located at Hvidovre Hospital. MR-scanning will be       performed with a dual transmit, 32-channel receive head coil (Nova Medical Products),       including a neuromelanin sensitive, magnetization transfer weighted (MTw) sequence at       0.4x0.4x1.0mm resolution, a susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) sequence at 0.4mm isotropic       resolution and a multi-echo quantitative R2* sequence at 1.0mm isotropic resolution.       Additionally, all participants will be scanned using a 3T Siemens Prisma MR system.        Additional examinations: Outside the scanner, motor and non-motor symptoms (UPDRS, Unified       Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale & NMSS, Non-Motor Symptom Scale), cognition (MoCA, Montreal       Cognitive Assessment), apathy (LARS, Lille Apathy Rating Scale), depression (BDI-II, Beck's       Depression Inventory), impulse control disorders (QUIP, Parkinson's Disease       Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders Questionnaire), impulsivity (BIS-11, Barratt Impulsiveness       Scale), and handedness (EHI, Edinburgh Handedness Inventory) will be assessed.        Part 2: 7T fMRI to assess DA and NA dysfunction in PD Participants: A sub-group of       individuals who participated in part 1 will be asked to participate in Part 2: It is expected       that 20 patients and all the healthy participants are able to lie sufficiently still to       cooperate in a fMRI experiment.        Participants will be scanned again with the 7T Achieva MR system using a reduced transverse       field-of-view covering the SN and LC. Structural imaging will include a 1.0 mm isotropic T1w       sequence for co-registration. High-spatial resolution functional Blood Oxygen Level Dependent       (BOLD) (fMRI) will be used to map the functional activations of SN and LC in two task-fMRI       paradigms. For the assessment of NA activation, a paradigm utilizing auditory stimuli and       visual stimuli with arousing content (IAPS, International Affective Picture System) will be       administered in two separate sessions; first inside the scanner, and secondly outside the       scanner, during which autonomic responses to the stimuli (pupil responses and skin       conductance responses) are recorded. In the second paradigm, participants will be gambling on       a virtual slot machine with two handle bars in two different colours where one of the handles       can be pushed, the other pulled. Participants have MRI-compatible joysticks to pull or push       the handles of the virtual slot machine. Depending on the block, the action performed       (pulling or pushing the handles, irrespective of their colour) or the stimulus colour (yellow       or blue, irrespective of whether they can be pushed or pulled) are predictive of reward and       punishment (one option has a higher reward probability than the other, these have to be       learnt via feedback). Reward probabilities are changing repeatedly and unannounced.        Patients will undergo the experiments twice on two separate days, on and off PD medication,       in a randomized, balanced order. Healthy participants will also undergo the experiments on       two separate days.
This study is a prospective, single-arm, mono-centre pilot study enrolling a maximum of 31       patients with SFN. All enrolled patients will receive a trial neurostimulation (TNS) lasting       from 3 to 30 days and only patients with a positive result in terms of pain intensity       reduction will be eligible for the implanted neurostimulation (INS) phase. The target number       of patients eligible for INS is 10 and this population will be assessed for impact of DRGS on       the neuropathic pain caused by SFN. The expected duration of patients participation will be       14 months. The rationale for this open label approach is that this is a novel technique for       which pilot data with regard to applicability and efficacy have yet to be established. Data       gathered in the study will provide preliminary data required to assess the feasibility of       this intervention, to be used for possible future studies with a more rigorous methodological       approach (i.e. controlled trial, randomized controlled trial).
1. Introduction             Postural deformities are frequent comorbidities that limit the quality of life in            patients with Parkinson's disease. Subject of the study is the investigation of postural            deformities as a concomitant disease in connection with therapy with DBS. The aim of            this prospective study is to examine the effect of deep brain stimulation on postural            instability and thus the quality of life of patients.          2. Study outline             The aim of this prospective study is to investigate the effect of DBS on postural            instability and thus the quality of life of patients.             For this purpose, the investigators would like to evaluate 50 participants before and at            certain time points (three, six, twelve and 24 months) after DBS surgery. X-rays of the            entire spine are carried out using EOS® technology and biodynamic measurements of the            spine using the Epionics SPINE ® system. In addition, the Investigators collect the            39-item PD Questionnaires (PDQ-39), Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)            Part III, Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) as clinical            parameters.             Our hypotheses (I): DBS improves the sagittal balance of the spine and the pelvic            rotation as a corresponding compensation mechanism for this incorrect posture (II) The            participant's mobility improves in course of DBS in terms of scope and speed (III) In            course after DBS, back pain is significantly reduced and the participant's everyday life            is easier to cope with.             The investigators hope to gain new insights into the pathophysiology of the spinal            deformities associated with Parkinson's disease from the study and to expand the            indication for DBS to include clinically relevant spinal complaints.          3. Consent to the study             The study was positively assessed by the Charité ethics committee and the Federal Office            for Radiation Protection.             Consent for study inclusion is sought after explanation and agreement to DBS treatment            for participants with Parkinson's disease. Thus, participants capable of consenting to            the DBS treatment get the study details explained themselves and may or may not agree to            participate. If a participant is incapable for consenting to the proposed treatment, he            may not be enrolled in the study.          4. Safety of DBS for Parkinson's disease and further risks for participants             Deep brain stimulation is a well-established and well-tolerated treatment for            Parkinson's disease.             The study-related risks result from the multiple X-ray examinations of the spine            (effective dose 2.6 µSv per examination). There are no other study-related risks of the            planned ones.          5. Insurance Coverage        An insurance was taken out for all study participants who took part in this study at       HDI-Gerling Industrie Versichung AG, Riethorst 2, 30659 Hanover, Insurance number:       5701032603017.        German laws §§ 40 to 42 Arzneimittelgesetz or §§ 20 to 23 Medizinproduktegesetz are not       applicable.        The Investigators are insured against fault-based damage through the existing liability       insurance of their clinic.
Aortic stenosis is associated with myocardial hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction. In       patients undergoing open aortic valve replacement surgery due to stenosis, the investigators       want to compare the effect on myocardial relaxation between two commonly used drugs,       levosimendan and milrinone, using catheter-based measurements in combination with       echocardiographic evaluation.        Standard anaesthesia and surgical care for these patients is performed. After surgery is       completed and the participant is transferred to the intensive care unit, the studies are       performed during general anaesthesia and the participants still connected to a respirator       with controlled ventilation.        Echocardiographic data will be collected simultaneously with hemodynamic parameters - first       at two control measurements, then after each of two different doses of the drug. Preload,       afterload and heart rate will be kept stable during this intervention. The echocardiographic       data is later analyzed offline for strain and strain rate.        To further investigate the dependency of strain and strain rate on changes in preload,       afterload, and heart rate, these variables are consecutively changed prior to drug       administration. For this purpose, all patients first have their baseline data recorded,       thereafter are paced at two different rates, then preload and afterload is altered by passive       leg elevation and phenylephrine, respectively. Hemodynamic and echocardiographic data are       collected simultaneously at baseline and after each intervention. Before administration of       the drugs, baseline conditions are restored.
Cystic echincoccosis (CE), caused by infection with the dog tapeworm, is a major worldwide       healthcare problem with increasing prevalence in the developed world. Approximately 75% of CE       involves the liver, with treatments incurring significant cost and patient morbidity.        The key to CE treatment is correct identification of active infection but differentiation       from sterile disease is highly problematic. Current treatment guidelines base activity       assessment on morphological assessment with ultrasound (US), serology and light-microscopy of       samples obtained at aspiration/surgery when available. Serology however can take many years       to become negative even following successful treatment and US evaluation is subjective.       Assessment of disease 'activity' is therefore a major challenge, particularly once patients       are undergoing treatment. The lack of accurate tools to assess treatment response has       undermined the development of management guidelines, particularly concerning the optimum       length of chemotherapy treatment and indications for surgical/image-guided intervention.        Quantitative MR methods present a potential solution to this challenge. Magnetic Resonance       Spectroscopy (MRS) has shown promising ex vivo results in detecting the biochemical       "signature" of active infection in cyst fluid, but has yet to be applied clinically.       Alternative approaches including T1 mapping, susceptibility mapping and Diffusion Weighted       Imaging/Intra-voxel Incoherent Motion are also potentially useful, but have little supportive       data to date.        Non-invasive biomarkers of CE activity are therefore essential to defining specific treatment       endpoints, particularly in the context of chemotherapy. Multiple quantitative MR methods       could be used to develop composite biomarkers for disease activity. Identifying a new       quantitative radiological 'fingerprint' for each stage of the natural life-cycle of hepatic       CE will enable improved diagnosis and therapeutic triage.        To date, in vivo liver quantitative MRI has not yet been applied to this cohort of patients,       thus representing a novel application of this technology to address an important clinical       question.        With this pilot study, the investigators aim to demonstrate the potential of quantitative MRI       methods in the assessment of active/inactive hepatic CE.
Because of their recurrent nature, their prevalence and their consequences, major depressive       disorders are real public health issues in terms of diagnosis and treatment.        Some forms of depression are chronic and resistant to treatment (TRD), either unipolar       (repeated episodes of depression) or bipolar (repeated episodes of depression and manic       and/or hypomanic episodes). In these forms suicide risk is important.        Patients with TRD are potential candidates for neurosurgical interventions to treat       depression. The benefit of neurosurgical procedures is expected to be important in these       patients.        Psychosurgery interventions based upon lesions, however, showed their limitations related to       1/ the large variability in neurosurgical gestures, 2/ their side effects, and of course 3/       the irreversible damage caused by the surgery.        Current brain imaging data yielded fresh information about the pathophysiology of depression       and suggested new therapeutic approaches in TRD.        Modulation of sub-caudate specific pathways, which are part of orbitofrontal and anterior       cingulate cortico-subcortical loops should allow for a diminution of depressive symptoms.        The modulation of these specific pathways, initially targeted by classical neurosurgery,       could benefit from current developments in functional neurosurgery.        Deep brain stimulation (DBS) may represent an opportunity for patients suffering from TRD.       Our preliminary study based upon the stimulation of the accumbens nucleus showed encouraging       results. The investigators have thus planned a randomized controlled trial versus sham       stimulation to confirm the therapeutic value of nucleus accumbens DBS.
This multi-centre, randomized, cross-over, prospective study will evaluate the occurrence of       AF with AF pacing therapies programmed on (APP and VRR) and with AF therapies programmed off       (APP and VRR) in patients with no known prior history of AF (all patients have a pacing       indication). The occurrence of AF as well as time to first event and AF burden (frequecy and       duration).
Sarcopenia is a common comorbidity and predictor of mortality in heart failure that is       characterized by a loss of muscle mass and functional strength. Sarcopenia, in heart failure       and other chronic diseases, has been consistently predictive of poor outcomes. However,       current tools to identify the presence of sarcopenia, such as functional tests and       questionnaires are indirect, non-specific, and not effective until patients have reached an       overtly cachectic state and significant muscle deterioration has already occurred. MRI can       serve an important, noninvasive role in the assessment and management of sarcopenia by       providing insight as to tissue microstructure and mitochondrial function. For example, MRI       has shown significant changes in T2 relaxation time, diffusion fractional anisotropy, and       lipid content in skeletal muscle of pre-frail/frail patients as compared to healthy       volunteers. Post-exercise phosphocreatine (PCr) recovery, evaluated using phosphorus-31 (P)       MR spectroscopy Imaging(P-MRSI), has shown impairment of mitochondrial function in pre-frail       elderly as compared to active elderly. MR fingerprinting (MRF) is a promising tool for tissue       characterization via rapid, robust quantification of T1 and T2 relaxation and has been shown       to be accurate and reproducible across sites. Despite applications in neuroimaging and       cardiac imaging, MRF has had limited use in musculoskeletal imaging and has not been       investigated for use in characterizing sarcopenia. Similarly, P-MRS imaging has not been       employed for evaluation of sarcopenia in heart failure patients, a population which may have       a unique etiology from other sarcopenia phenotypes. Characterization of sarcopenia may       support a range of rapidly developing treatment options in this population. While evidence       suggests exercise therapy can improve frailty status, for instance in 39% of patients at 12       month follow-up, it is not yet well-understood which patients will respond to treatment. With       a range of treatment options such as nutritional supplementation, hormone therapy, and       cardiovascular drugs, MRF and P-MRSI could serve as powerful noninvasive tools to provide a       personalized approach for sarcopenic phenotypes, match them to appropriate therapy, and       monitor therapeutic response.
OCD is an anxiety disorder characterized by intrusive thoughts or images (obsessions), which       increase anxiety, commonly accompanied by repetitive or ritualistic actions (compulsions),       which decrease anxiety. The most frequent symptoms are contamination concerns with consequent       washing or concerns about harm to self or others with consequent checking.        Although many OCD patients benefit from pharmacotherapy or CBT, between 7% and 10% of OCD       patients fail to benefit from these standard treatments and may be considered       treatment-resistant with a chronic deteriorating course. The most severely afflicted and       disabled of these patients may be indicated for neurosurgical treatments, often considered as       a therapy of last resort.        Neurosurgical procedures currently used in the treatment of severe, treatment-resistant OCD       include anterior cingulotomy, subcaudate tractotomy, limbic leucotomy (which is a combination       of the first two procedures) and anterior capsulotomy. The commonality between the different       neurosurgical procedures is the irreversible lesioning of bilateral neuroanatomical       structures and/or interconnecting pathways that are believed to be involved in the control of       affect and limbic function.        An alternative neurosurgical treatment option to the standard lesioning procedures is       Reclaim® Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Therapy for OCD, which received CE mark in July 2009.
Total hip arthroplasty (THA) has been successful in achieving pain reduction, but recent       concerns have been raised regarding the development of adverse local tissue reactions       (ALTRs). Our group has previously found that: 1) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can detect       and distinguish wear debris from THA; 2) MRI is sensitive to ALTR damage from different       articulating surfaces; and 3) variable host-mediated response to wear debris mounts distinct       morphologic patterns on MRI. There is continued interest in the evaluation of soft tissues       near THAs as traditional THA designs, including metal-on-polyethylene (MOP) and       ceramic-on-polyethylene (COP) bearing surfaces, have recently been implicated in ALTRs. It is       believed that fretting and corrosion at the head-neck junction is responsible for ALTRs,       secondary to flexural rigidity and other implant mechanical features. If a greater prevalence       of ALTR is found in components with more flexible connections, this could drive the practice       of THA to stiffer connections.        In this study, we will evaluate two important causes of implant failure: (1) in designs not       traditionally associated with ALTRs such as metal-on-polyethylene (MOP) and       ceramic-on-polyethylene (COP) we will assess patients indicated for revision THA surgery with       MRI and correlate the imaging metrics to targeted biopsy retrieval obtained at the time of       revision (including the trunnion), the extent of tissue damage documented at surgery, and       implant retrieval analysis of the neck trunnion, including flexural rigidity analysis; and       (2) to longitudinally assess implant integration using qualitative MRI evaluation of the       bone-implant interface as well as quantitative MRI techniques, T2 mapping and T2* mapping       using MAVRIC-UTE, to evaluate relaxometry at the interface.
This is an interventional, prospective, multicenter, nonrandomized clinical and       epidemiological study. We are planning to enroll 5,000 patients.        Three outpatient departments, 3 affiliates of a city clinical hospital and 6 rural health       posts in Moscow region are equipped with 25 CardioQVARK electrocardiography (ECG) devises.        The study implies 9 stages:          1. Patient signs informed consent and consent to the processing of personal data than fills            out a questionnaire in a mobile application            (https://itunes.apple.com/ru/app/cardioqvark/id1320898122) and registers a 3-minute ECG            with a single-lead CardioQVARK ECG device. If an episode of atrial fibrillation (AF) is            not detected during a reception, but a patient describes symptoms of AF, we hand out the            devices to such patients to take home with them.          2. All records that are registered at outpatient departments, affiliates, rural health            posts and at home are sent to a server of "CardioQVARK" (Limited Liability Company). For            data processing, an AF detecting algorithm is applied. If AF is detected, an ECG report            is generated in PDF format.          3. Three independent cardiology experts receive ECG records and verify the performance of            the algorithm. They decode and annotate ECG reports (PDF).          4. If the expert confirms that the algorithm detected an AF episode, the ECG report (PDF)            is sent to an arrhythmologist for diagnosis. After that, the ECG record with confirmed            diagnosis is passed to a physician at a health-care facility.          5. When the physician receives the report, he calls the patient to verify the diagnosis in            a face-to-face consultation. That can be done by routine ECG, 24-, 48- or 72-hour ECG            monitoring.          6. Anticoagulation therapy is revised or induced for all patients with diagnosed AF.          7. Six months after the enrollment, the patient is called for another face-to-face            consultation with further peripheral venous blood sampling to assess anticoagulation            therapy in terms of pharmacokinetics (assess compliance) and pharmacogenetics (assess            the influence of genetic factors on anticoagulant effect of warfarin and new oral            anticoagulants).          8. Estimating cost-effectiveness of using the single-lead CardioQVARK ECG device in            screening for AF in primary health care.          9. Statistical processing of data and endpoints determination.
The trial goals The ICD-Reality study is an investigator-led, multicenter, prospective,       randomized, controlled trial. We aim to determine the effect of CRT-D or CRT-P implantation       in non-ischemic cardiomyopathy and heart failure patients. The reason why we initiated this       trial is the lack of evidence-based treatment for the significant number of these patients.       In these patients, 5-year mortality remains as high as 20% despite recent therapeutic       advances. Based on currently available evidence, because of a significant decrease in       mortality due to modern pharmacotherapy, it is not certain which of these patients should       receive an ICD. We hypothesize that patients with symptomatic HF, LVEF ≤35%, without left       ventricular mid-wall fibrosis on LGE-CMR, will not benefit from CRT-D implantation compared       with CRT-P only implantation. If our hypothesis is confirmed, this could provide evidence for       the management of these patients with a significant impact on common daily praxis and health       care expenditures.        Clinical hypothesis:        Patients with symptomatic HF, with LVEF ≤35% and without LV mid-wall fibrosis on late       gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (CMR), will not benefit from       CRT-D implantation compared with CRT-P only implantation.        Estimated number of patients needed to be screened and randomized:        600 patients are needed to be randomized according to the study power analysis. Since 35 % of       patients are estimated to be LG-E positive and thus excluded from randomization, 924 patients       are needed to be screened.        Pre-screening:        Patients with non-ischemic HF visiting an out-patient department and possibly eligible for       the trial will have their pharmacotherapy optimized. A screening visit in an out-patient       department will be scheduled in 1-2 months after pharmacotherapy optimization since the       qualifying LVEF and NT-proBNP level has to be measured after a maximal tolerated       pharmacotherapy of heart failure has been achieved.        Screening:        After the signing of informed consent, screening examination will be performed. The informed       consent will be obtained by attending physician in every center and a signed original will be       stored in each individual center for the whole duration of the study. The screening       examination will include medical history, documentation of underlying cardiac disease. The       following co-morbidities will be specifically documented: peripheral arterial disease,       cerebral vascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, sleep apnea,       tobacco use, and any malignant disease within the last 5 years. Physical exam with vital       signs, NYHA functional class, pulse rate, resting blood pressure will be performed.       Cardiovascular pharmacological treatment will be documented. Standard laboratory parameters       are recorded, including creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate, liver tests, TSH,       NT-proBNP. Transthoracic echocardiography will be done to confirm LVEF ≤35% using biplane       Simpson's method. Documented will be LV end-systolic and end-diastolic diameters and volumes,       thickness of ventricular septum and LV posterior wall, stroke volume, cardiac output, indexed       left atrial volume, presence and grade of valvular heart disease, right ventricle diameter,       TAPSE, presence and grade of pulmonary hypertension. Selective coronarography will be       performed if it was not done before to exclude patients with a severe coronary heart disease.       LGE-CMR imaging will be performed by an operator blinded to all other clinical data to       evaluate left ventricular mid-wall fibrosis.        Patients with a significant amount of fibrosis will be excluded from the study and treated       according to local practice with an emphasis on ICD implantation to prevent SCD.        Randomization:        After fulfilling all eligibility criteria, including maximally tolerated pharmacotherapy,       subjects will be randomized by the physicians who enrolled them in a 1:1 ratio to receive       CRT-D or CRT-P implantation. Randomization will be carried out by physicians enrolling       patients through a stand-alone web-based CRF managed by an independent biomedicine and       statistics center, independent on all randomizing personnel. The web-CRF-based allocation       sequence will be based on computer-generated random numbers and will be concealed until the       type of intervention is assigned.        Treatment:        After randomization, devices will be implanted as soon as possible (within 2 weeks). The ICD       will be programmed with anti-tachycardia pacing and shock therapy as per common praxis.        Follow-up:        All patients will be followed-up for at least 3 years after the implantation. After the       implantation, all patients will be examined every 6 months in an out-patient department with       the assessment of medical history, vital signs, physical exam, and NT-proBNP as in the       screening visit. A device control will be performed every 6 months.        After device implantation the concomitant care and all possible concomitant interventions       will be carried out as per common praxis.        Patients will be evaluated for possible end-points. Deaths and hospitalizations for heart       failure, stroke or arrhythmias will be recorded throughout the study duration.        Quality of life (QoL) is assessed at baseline and annually during follow-up. Patients will       fill out the SF-36 Questionnaire for general QoL, the MacNew Questionnaire for disease       specific QoL.        An Endpoint Classification Committee will adjudicate hospitalizations and deaths for       causality. An independent Data Monitoring Committee will periodically review mortality data       throughout the study.        For safety reasons, all patients will be followed using a daily ECG monitoring and analysis.       ECG from the Home-monitoring units will be evaluated in a dedicated center. This center will       evaluate the ECGs sent from the Home-monitoring units with respect to patient safety and the       study end-points. If the Home-monitoring unit reveals any rhythm disturbance they will       contact the patient's physician and make a record in the CRF. If a sustained ventricular       tachyarrhythmia is documented on a Home-monitoring in a CRT-P patient, a decision will be       made and documented about a possible crossover to CRT-D as soon as possible.        Patients who will deviate from intervention protocols (e.g. crossover to CRT-D implantation)       will continue to be followed-up.        Blinding:        Trial participants will be blinded to the device type for the whole duration of the trial.        The randomizing and implanting physicians will not be blinded to the type of the device.       These physicians will not take care in the subsequent patients' follow-up and sign a       declaration of confidentiality.        The same will be true for the physicians / technicians attending to the device interrogation       during follow-up visits. The device type will be hidden and physicians will sign a       declaration of confidentiality. The patients' documentation will not reveal the device type.        A maximum effort will be done to hide the type of the implanted device. The implantation will       be intramuscular and the device interrogation follow-up visits will not reveal the device       type.        The physicians attending the follow-up visits and entering all patients' data into web-based       CRF will be blinded to the implanted device type.        In case of an emergency with a need to reveal the type of the device, i.e. lead fracture,       infection in the place of implantation, ventricular tachycardia, the site principal       investigator will decide to unblind the patient. This will be documented in the CRF.
In the immediate postoperative period of cardiac surgery and in intensive care unit (ICU), a       systemic arterial hypotension is frequently observed. This hypotension is often due to       hypovolemia but also to pump dysfunction and/or vasoplegia. Early recognition of the       hypotensive mechanism is necessary because it requires immediate specific treatment.        The interest of a vascular filling is usually estimated by a preload dependence test (fluid       responsiveness), showing an increase in the stroke volume when preload is increased according       to the Starling the law of the heart. To date, a preload dependency test is usually performed       by passive leg raise (PLR) or by measuring the respiratory pulse variation (ΔPP).        The PLR response varies according to the legs venous volume and capacitance. The derivation       of ΔPP has been validated in patients intubated, sedated, and ventilated in standard       conditions, in sinus rhythm but the ΔPP directly displayed by the monitors is unreliable and       the manual calculation on pressure curve is fastidious. Faced with these difficulties, the       trend is to realize a blind filling with physiologic saline solution and to judge his       interest on clinical and / or hemodynamic criteria.        After cardiac surgery, ventricular epicardial electrodes are systematically placed allowing a       temporary stimulation by an external pacemaker in case of postoperative atrio-ventricular       blocks. The ventricular stimulation without atrial pacing (VESAP) leads to a loss of the       atrial systole and therefore a decrease in the left ventricular preload. During the       functional test of epicardial electrodes at a frequency greater than the patient's, it is       possible to observe in certain circumstances a decrease of the arterial blood pressure, but       of varying importance.        The investigators suspect that the eventual fall in blood pressure during a ventricular       pacing test, could be correlated with preload dependence. Therefore, investigator hypothesize       that ventricular pacing can be used to realize a functional testing of preload dependence,       easy to achieve. Indeed, if doctors admit that during a brief ventricular stimulation, heart       rate and systemic vascular resistance remain unchanged, the drop in blood pressure should       reflect the decrease in stroke volume.        The main objective of this study is to demonstrate that the response to VESAP can predict the       preload dependence of patients after a cardiac surgery. The primary endpoint will study the       predictive value of the change in blood pressure during the VESAP and the change in stroke       volume after an infusion of 500 cc of crystalloid solution. Secondary endpoints will 1)       compare the predictive values of the VESAP and ΔPP; 2) look for pertinent VESAP threshold in       correlation with the expected increase in stroke volume; and 3) collection of the possible       complications due to the VESAP.        30 patients will be enrolled in this monocentric, open label, non-randomized study.
nan
Patients and Methods. Patients selected to be enrolled were born in Chagas disease endemic       areas of Argentina and bordering countries such as Bolivia and Paraguay, whose current       residence is in urban non endemic areas of Argentina. They were sorted by clinical stage:       stage 0, 1, 2 and 3 according to a modified Kuschnir classification.1 Briefly, Stage 0       corresponds to patients only with reactive serology for Chagas disease; stage 1, patients       with reactive serology plus electrocardiographic abnormalities; stage 2, patients with the       abovementioned characteristics plus dilatation of left ventricle by echocardiography, and       stage 3, patients with the abovementioned characteristics, plus cardiac failure.        The follow-up was performed every 4 months during the first 2 years, every 6 months in the       3rd and 4th year, and annually from then on until the end of the study in 2012.        The safety of TRAENA was controlled at days 25 and 45 intra-treatment by means of laboratory       tests and clinical evaluation, and at any time that an adverse event was apparent in       patients.        Adherence to medication administration was verified by means of a booklet where the patient       recorded the daily intake of medication and any physical abnormality that appeared during the       time they were taking of medicine. Adherence was controlled by a surveillance and recovery       system which consisted of telephone calls, telegrams, letters or home visits that was termed       "active monitoring", which was immediately applied to the control visit when the patient did       not attend the corresponding schedule control.        Telephone calls were the most useful tool to recover adherence to monitoring. Patients were       assigned to BZN or Placebo treatment by an investigator independent from the research group.       Prior to randomization, a pre randomization stratification was performed according to       prognostic factors based on clinical stages of Chagas disease.        A database was designed to be used as the registry for the whole study. Demographic,       epidemiologic, serologic, parasitological and clinical variables were used in its design, and       were registered pre treatment, intra treatment and post treatment throughout the monitoring.       Medical records were the primary documents for the registry, where all the variables were       recorded manually. Based on the data, variables were registered on a daily basis and a random       weekly check was conducted on the data against the medical records. Our Standard Operating       Procedure was based on the following procedures: patient screening, selection and coding,       sample collection, serum bank, DNA sample storage, monitoring systematization, surveillance       systems to recover patients who had discontinued monitoring, etc.        In October 2011 the Base Data Monitoring Board for the last Interim Analysis, recommended an       addendum modifying the secondary outcomes, adding simple and combined events. These events       were characterized only by electrocardiographic abnormalities or associated to       echocardiographic ones. These events were evaluated up April 2013.
Native T1 mapping is a novel, non-contrast, cardiac MRI technique that characterises       myocardial tissue by exploiting the different water content of tissues. It correlates well       with histo-pathological levels of myocardial fibrosis in diseases of pressure overload such       as aortic stenosis. There is growing evidence to demonstrate the potential of native T1       mapping as an imaging biomarker of myocardial fibrosis in patients with ESRD; myocardial       native T1 values are higher in patients with ESRD than controls, and associate with measures       of myocardial strain and circulating markers of cardiac dysfunction. Although native T1 times       are affected by water content of tissues, our group has shown that native T1 times are not       influenced by clinical changes in fluid status in HD patients and that the inter-study       reproducibility and intra- and inter-observer variability of native T1 are outstanding.        Native T1 mapping is a promising, non-invasive imaging biomarker of myocardial fibrosis in       patients with advanced renal disease. It is essential that the technique is validated against       histology before further use in clinical studies.        The aim of this study is to directly assess the relationship between native T1 mapping and       levels of MF examined at post-mortem in haemodialysis patients.
this study is a Prospective randomized open label study will be conducted on Egyptian patient       with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction(rEF HF). Each of the eligible patients will       be randomized to one of these groups, early administration of Ivabradine and B-blocker group       or control group which follows American Heart Association treatment guidelines of rEF HF.        The objectives include the following:          1. Physical examination (heart rate, blood pressure, dyspnea and orthopnea symptoms)          2. NYHA class          3. Pro-NT-BNP serum level, ST2 serum level          4. Echocardiography (left ventricular ejection fraction)          5. Score of Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire these objectives will be            measured baseline, 2 weeks and after 3 months
BACKGROUND OF THE STUDY        Ovarian cancer is a gynecological cancer with a high risk of mortality. This is because the       diagnosis is often been made in an advanced cancer stage with metastases throughout the       peritoneum. The standard treatment for this condition till now consisted of primary debulking       surgery where the tumor, the uterus and both the ovaries were removed, followed by a minimum       of six treatments with platinum-based chemotherapy. This operation is often accompanied by       serious complications such as for example bleedings, embolic events, infections and in       extreme cases, even mortality. An international study led by Prof. Dr. Ignace Vergote       (Gynaecological Oncology) showed for the first time that patients in such an advanced stage       of ovarian cancer who received first three neoadjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy regimens       followed by interval debulking surgery, and in turn followed by at least 3 treatment with       platinum-based chemotherapy, had fewer complications than patients treated with primary       debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. Moreover, the final survival rate in both groups       seemed to be similar. The most important prognostic marker appeared to be whether patients       with primary or interval surgery no longer had a visible residual tumor after the treatment.       Patients who had only small metastases in the peritoneum, seemed to be better treated with       primary surgery (neoadjuvant Vergote I, et al Chemotherapy or Primary Surgery in Stage IIIC       or IV Ovarian Crystallising, N Engl J Med 363 (1910): 943 - 953).        Each patient with suspected advanced ovarian cancer should undergo a preoperative evaluation       where they assess which of the two treatments is the best option. This should of course, for       each individual patient, take into account comorbidity, cancer stage, number and location of       the metastases etc. Currently,[18F] FDG-PET/CT, CT and conventional MRI are being used for       staging, detecting recurrence and metastasis and for evaluating therapy response. These       techniques have some disadvantages. A PET study takes a long time to perform and makes use of       radioactive material. The addition of CT also gives rise to additional radiation. [18F] FDG       accumulates in inflammatory cells in the tumor. This can explain the difficulties concerning       early evaluation of treatment response. Although CT allows high resolution images of the       entire body, sometimes the technology lacks sufficient sensitivity or specificity. Although       conventional MRI has the highest sensitivity for detection of liver metastases, the lack of       efficient whole-body imaging for staging a disadvantage when assessing systemic tumor spread       and metastasis. Small peritoneal metastases are therefore often missed with this technique.        Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is an emerging technology that is currently being uses in       cancer imaging. Here the difference in movement of water molecules provides information about       the integrity of cellular membranes. DWI has the advantage that no contrast material is       required and there is also no need for exposure to ionizing radiation. Further developments       in technology allowed for an acceptable time in whole body conducting research, so we should       be able to image gastrointestinal tumors with this whole body technique.        AIM OF THE STUDY        The aim of the study is to assess whole body diffusion weighted imaging (WB-DWI) as a       non-invasive method, in patients with confirmed ovarian cancer in the presence of peritoneal       metastases. This is to assess which of the two treatments (primary debulking surgery followed       chemotherapy versus platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking       surgery, followed in turn by chemotherapy) is the best option for a particular type of       patient.
The primary goal is to learn how many CareLink quarterly scheduled transmissions are       completed within a prescribed time period to assess CareLink scheduled transmission       compliance. The evaluation will also assess adoption to remote monitoring, patient perceived       benefit of BlueSync™ (how patients interact with the smart device application) and health       care provider perception of the value of BlueSync™ and satisfaction with BlueSync™ (benefits       experienced by clinicians that use BlueSync™).        This clinical trial information was submitted voluntarily under the applicable law and,       therefore, certain submission deadlines may not apply. (That is, clinical trial information       for this applicable clinical trial was submitted under section 402(j)(4)(A) of the Public       Health Service Act and 42 CRF 11.60 and is not subject to the deadlines established by       sections 402(j)(2) and (3) of the Public Health Service Act or 42 CRF 11.24 and 11.44).
1. Staging --- (PET-)CT is used nowadays to provide imaging information about the disease            burden of ovarian cancer patients and a diagnostic staging laparoscopy under general            anesthesia is often necessary to allow correct and accurate staging. The applicant            propose an "all-in-one" imaging modality providing high quality thoracic-abdominal            images without using ionizing radiation and/or radioactive material. This allows            accurate assessment of operability in a minimally invasive manner.          2. Early treatment assessment --- Although response to the first administration of            chemotherapy is quite reasonable, most patients show tumor recurrence and achieve            increasingly poorer response rates to second- or third-line regimes. Therefore it is of            major concern that a individualized prediction of chemosensitivity can be performed            avoiding unnecessary toxicity from inefficient chemotherapeutic agents. A promising            perspective is that the predictive data to be generated might prove to be sufficiently            powerful to predict chemosensitivity early in the course of the treatment, facilitating            a timely change of treatment in nonresponders. This could avoid unnecessary toxicity for            patients, improving quality of life and moreover implicate considerable savings for the            healthcare sector.          3. Identifying tumor recurrence --- Identifying tumor recurrence at an early stage could            translate into reduction of unnecessary biopsies, cost savings and reduced morbidity            associated with the biopsy procedure. But the most important issue is that early            diagnosis can be life saving with respect to tumor recurrence.
nan
nan
Bipolar disorder (BP) is a chronic, complex and highly heterogeneous disease that has been       unrecognized or misdiagnosed in prepubertal children and adolescents. It is one of the most       disabling forms of childhood psychopathology and carries a striking human and economic cost.       A high percentage of children and adolescents with BP respond very poorly to existing       treatments. There is a significant need for studies identifying the developmentally sensitive       targets for novel therapeutic compounds for this truly disabling illness. A growing range of       novel therapeutic options for the treatment of BP are under investigation. Highly unsaturated       fatty acids of the omega-3 fatty acids are among the novel therapeutic compounds considered       in the treatment of adult patients with BP. However, the mood-stabilizing efficacy and the       neurometabolic effects of this naturally occurring dietary components have not been examined       in pediatric patients with BP.        The objective of this study is to identify magnetic resonance spectroscopic characteristics       of adolescents with BP before and during a double-blind, placebo controlled combined omega-3       fatty and omega -6 fatty acid trial. We will compare the spectroscopic findings of the BP       group with individually matched healthy comparison subjects before and after the       omega-3/omega-6 fatty acid treatment. We will identify a well-described cohort of adolescents       (age: 12-18) with BP without catatonic features, psychotic features, or other psychiatric       comorbidity. Comorbidity with ADHD will be allowed since this might be a separate phenotype       for pediatric BP. We will analyze the differences between BP subjects with comorbid ADHD, and       BP subjects without ADHD. We will evaluate subjects with a novel magnetic resonance imaging       technique, Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging (MRSI). We will use a high-field 3T       magnet to perform the MRSI acquisition, and apply a tissue volume correction technique to       compare absolute metabolite concentrations rather than metabolite ratios. Previous studies       found pronounced abnormalities in the frontal lobes, cingulate cortex, thalamus and basal       ganglia of patients with BP. Thus, the region of interest in this study will include these       anatomical areas with special emphasis given to prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate       cortex.        To our knowledge, this will be the first study examining omega-3 fatty acid induced changes       in the developing brain in vivo. The long-term goal of our research group is to identify the       developmentally sensitive, trait and state related magnetic resonance spectroscopic markers       of pediatric BP. The preliminary data obtained from this application will be used to design a       larger scale, follow-up study to examine whether alterations in brain metabolite measures are       clinical state or trait markers and to determine the developmental variability in the       patterns of metabolic abnormalities. Such knowledge will provide powerful insight into       developmentally sensitive targeted pharmacological interventions. Studying bipolar disorder       early in its course will be important to minimize potentially confounding factors, such as       the effects of long-term medication use and neurodegeneration related to chronic illness       course and substance abuse.        Based on the existing literature, we hypothesized that increased myoinositol levels will be       detected in the regions of interests of adolescents with BP in comparison to healthy       controls.
Background and rationale The Boston Scientific Acurate neo2 TAVI prosthesis was launched       commercially in Europe in September 2020 as a successor to the original Acurate neo       prosthesis. Modifications include an added sealing skirt. The original Acurate neo failed to       reach non-inferiority to other TAVI prostheses in two randomized trials. There is a need to       gather initial safety and efficacy data from this next generation prosthesis, as there is no       larger dataset presented after the CE-mark study of the Acurate neo2.        Project objectives To gather initial safety and efficacy data in the initial up to 500       consecutive patients treated with the Acurate neo2 in various European sites.        Karolinska will be the coordinating center for data collection.        Methods Data will be collected in an anonymous form and sent to Karolinska for compilation       and statistics. Data collection will continue until 500 patients are reached (April, 2021).        Statistics Standard descriptive statistics will be used for the main results. For the       comparison to SCOPE data (with the original Acurate neo prosthesis) on postoperative aortic       insufficiency, standard statistical methods will used (Fishers exact test for categorical       variables, and t-test for continuous measurements such as amount of regurgitation by       videodensitometry).        Core lab studies The core lab analyses will be performed at CORRIB in Galway (Prof. Serruys       et al).
nan
Principal objective:        To evaluate the efficacy at 3 months of combined ablation technique in the treatment of       chronic atrial fibrillation during cardiac surgery in order to obtain a sinusal heart rate.        A sequential statistical analysis of the results will be performed every 10 patients.        In case of validation of the principal objective by a sequential method i.e. proving the       superiority of the treatment by ablation, ,the study would then be opened and pursued by       using the ablation technique for all subsequent patients in order to validate the secondary       study objectives        Secondary objectives:          -  To evaluate the quality of life of the patients at one year and the absence of atrial            fibrillation relapse.          -  6 and 12 months clinical follow-up          -  To evaluate the left atrial function at 6 months by trans-oesophagus echocardiography
For this in silico planning study all treatment plans will be performed in centers that are       already operating and have experience in treatment planning. IMRT treatment plans will be       calculated in Eindhoven (NL), Tomotherapy plans in Deventer (NL), Cyberknife plans in Liege       (BE) and RapidArc treatment plans in Hasselt (BE). Proton treatment plans will be performed       at the University of Pennsylvania (USA) and the C-ion treatment plans at the University of       Marburg (GE).        A dataset with state-of-the-art image data is available. 25 patients will be included       according to a-priori defined selection criteria. Each patient will function as his or her       own control. For this reason, the number of patients per tumor group can be limited to 25       patients per tumor group (power = 80%, alpha = 5%).        The datasets will be stored on a secure website hosted by MAASTRO. High quality CT-images       will be used for radiotherapy treatment planning. Secondary image information such as FDG-PET       and MRI will be used for GTV delineation. GTV and all relevant OARs will be delineated in       MAASTRO (NL). The GTV to PTV margin will be determined by the individual institutes according       to the treatment technique and treatment modality.        Photons will be planned with state of the art treatment techniques. Protons will be planned       using active beam delivery with Intensity Modulated proton therapy (IMPT)and carbon-ions with       a pencil beam delivery treatment planning technique with gantry. Each participating center       will use its own treatment planning system according to standard practice at that center. The       same tumor dose, overall treatment time (OTT) and an equal number of fractions will be used       for all treatment modalities.        Photon, proton and C-ion treatments will be compared based on dosimetric parameters on normal       tissues. DVH's will be calculated for the OARs. In addition, the NTCP for a fixed tumor dose       will be determined. Cobalt Gy equivalent doses will be used when reporting the proton and       carbon-ion dose. In the case of protons, a constant RBE value of 1.1 will be used for both       the tumor and the normal tissues. The RBE of carbon-ions will be calculated based on the       models used by the participating centers.
nan
The CARRYING ON for heart failure (HF) study is a national, prospective, post market       interventional, multi-center, open-label, pilot trial designed in two phases.        The purpose of the study is to assess a short term (6 months follow-up - Phase 1) and a long       term period (24 months follow-up - Phase 2), incidence of pre-specified clinical and       arrhythmic events in patients with a low ejection fraction (EF) that are hospitalized for       acute cardiac decompensation. A previously implanted Reveal® XT device will be used to       collect heart rhythm information.
This study is intended to collect data regarding the clinical utility, safety and performance       of the Medtronic CoreValve® System for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) in       patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis for which treatment via direct aortic       access (DA) is selected. As part of the study analysis, resource utilization together with       the Quality of Life questionnaires data will provide an important input into cost       effectiveness analysis.
The EARLY-AF study is centered on an evaluation of the impact of the early invasive       management of Atrial Fibrillation.        All patients will undergo a loop recorder implantation (REVEAL LINQ, Medtronic), also called       an insertable cardiac monitor (ICM), at the time of study enrolment using standard clinical       implant procedures.        The primary goal of the study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of an early invasive       approach. Specifically, the investigators are aiming to evaluate if PVI performed with the       Arctic Front cryoballoon is superior to AAD as first-line therapy in preventing atrial       arrhythmia recurrences (arrhythmia related symptoms, hospitalisations, and health care       utilization).        The secondary goal of the program is to evaluate the health related quality of life (HRQOL)       impact associated with early invasive intervention, in comparison to primary AAD therapy.       This analysis will be centered on an evaluation of generic and disease-specific HRQOL       instruments in order to determine the impact of an early invasive approach. A secondary       benefit is the derivation of a Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) score, which can be used       as a summary measure of health outcome and to inform subsequent healthcare resource       allocation decisions.
nan
Transcatheter aortic valve implantation has been shown to be non-inferior to surgical aortic       valve replacement in patients with severe aortic stenosis at high, intermediate and low       surgical risk. In recent years, a concept of a simplified and optimized TAVR procedure (known       as minimalist approach) has led experienced centers to perform the majority of these       procedures using conscious sedation and local anesthesia only. From a clinical perspective,       this approach is associated with better and faster recovery and mobilization, reduced need       for a prolonged intensive care unit (ICU) stay and faster hospital discharge, as compared to       general anesthesia.        The cost-effectiveness of minimalist TAVR strategy - as compared to surgery - in Brazil is       uncertain. Our objective is to conduct a cost-utility analysis comparing minimalist       transcatheter aortic valve implantation with surgical aortic valve replacement in patients       with severe aortic stenosis.
Patients referred for surgery are included thorough reading referral letter. Data collected       in the study wil be compared with data from Medical records and clinical examination.        Data entered will be controlled by two investigators.        Data wil be compared to national norms and from result of other studies.
Patients are selected according to the eligibility requirements. After being informed about       the study and potential risks of neuromodulation, all included patients and next of kin give       written informed consent to the study.        At baseline, patients are randomized to one of the two predefined subgroups: either invasive       sacral nerve stimulation or non-invasive sacral nerve stimulation. Clinical symptoms and       outcome variables are compared with beginning of non-invasive sacral nerve stimulation or       starting from implantation of tined lead. Patients are closely monitored within 6 months.       Treatment success is evaluated in routine clinical check-ups (week 4/8/12 and 24) and via       specialized questionnaires and bowel movement diaries. Quality of life is evaluated at       baseline and after 12 and 24 weeks of treatment.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia encountered in clinical practice and       is estimated to affect 2.2 million people in the United States. AF is a major cause of       stroke, adversely affects quality of life, and is associated with increased mortality.       Despite advances in antiarrhythmic drug therapy, AF continues to be associated with       significant morbidity. Although antiarrhythmic drug therapy is currently considered a       first-line option, recent data indicate that more than 35% of Patients will have recurrence       of AF despite best antiarrhythmic drug (AAD) therapy, and more than 30% of Patients will       discontinue the drugs because of adverse reactions. Furthermore, although recent trials have       indicated equivalence of rhythm and rate control strategies in some patient populations,       25-35% of Patients with AF who are rate controlled will continue to have activity limiting       symptoms. Newer measures to prevent, treat and potentially cure AF are needed. Seminal work       by Haissaguerre and replicated by Chen showed that the majority of AF is initiated by ectopic       foci found primarily in the pulmonary veins (PV). Experience with the catheter-based Maze       technique led to observations that opened the door to effective and practical catheter-based       cures for AF. In response to the difficulties of focal ablation, an alternate strategy has       been developed that seeks to electrically isolate the Pulmonary Veins from the atrial tissue.       Empirical PV isolation targets all of the PV's without regard to the initiation of ectopic       beats. The goal is to create entrance block in the PV. Multipolar circular catheters and       basket catheters have been developed that facilitate identification of the electrical       connections that are present at the junction of the atrium and the PV, and radiofrequency       energy is applied in a circumferential fashion until entrance block is achieved. Relative to       focal ablation, circumferential PV isolation is simpler to perform, can be completed without       inducing AF, has a shorter procedure time, and has a lower incidence of PV stenosis.        Comparison: Patients will have ablation to achieve entrance and/or exit block into all       pulmonary veins, compared with patients receiving antiarrhythmic drugs given in accordance       with ACC/AHA/ESC 2006 Guidelines for the Management of patients with AF.
nan
Background Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is now the standard of care for       inoperable patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis and an accepted alternative to       surgery for high-risk patients. Despite a high procedure success rate (> 95%), TAVI remained       associated with complications directly related to the technique (stroke, aortic       regurgitation, vascular access bleeding) or to co morbidities frequently associated with       aortic valve disease in elderly and frail patients. Reducing periprocedural complications is       thereby the key for the future use of TAVI in lower-risk patients.        Methods/design The transcatheter aortic valve implantation without prior balloon dilatation       (DIRECTAVI) trial is a randomized controlled open label trial that include 240 patients       randomized to TAVI performed with prior balloon dilatation of the valve (control arm) or       direct implantation of the valve (test arm). The trial tests the hypothesis that the strategy       of direct implantation of the balloon expandable SAPIEN 3 prosthesis is non-inferior to       current medical practice using predilatation of the valve. The primary endpoint is related to       immediate procedural success criteria and secondary end points include complications at       30-day follow-up (VARC 2 criteria). A subgroup analysis evaluates neurological ischemic       events with cerebral MRI imaging (25 patients in each strategy group) performed before and       after the procedure.        In conclusion, we hope that the study will provide robust evidence of safety and efficiency       of TAVI performed without prior dilatation of the aortic valve using the balloon expandable       SAPIEN 3 THV and will allow the interventional cardiologist to use this strategy in everyday       practice.
In the operating room, as part of the open heart surgery, the surgeon will stimulate the       superior right atrium section of the heart with a pacemaker for 30 seconds just prior to       starting the heart and lung bypass machine. The stimulation is done to see how sensitive the       heart is to developing atrial fibrillation. This test result will be documented. The       procedure will only take 60 seconds out of the entire operation. It does not involve taking       any samples of tissue or blood. Following this step, if the heart demonstrates atrial       fibrillation for at least 30 seconds then the participant will then be randomized to either       receive the prophylactic drug treatment using Amiodarone or to no prophylactic drug       administration. The participant has a 50% chance of receiving the FDA approved study drug       Amiodarone. The study arms consist of prophylactic drug administration with Amiodarone, No       prophylactic drug administration, or no atrial fibrillation reaction after stimulation with       the pacemaker. The remainder of the surgical procedure will not be affected, and will follow       routine surgical practice.
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the hypothesis that implantable       cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy would decrease the risk of death from any cause in       comparison to optimal heart failure (HF) care without ICD insertion in patients with NIDCM,       left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤35% and presence of myocardial fibrosis on cardiac       magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.
To date studies have showed that physiological pacing could get similar clinical and       echocardiographic response to that obtained with biventricular therapy. Activation time       shortening with permanent physiological pacing has not been studied.        This study will randomize 70 patients to a strategy of: biventricular pacing versus       physiological pacing.        LEVEL-AT study will analyze the following parameters in the 2 groups: shortening of the QRS,       activation time with electrocardiographic imaging, echocardiographic asynchrony and       ventricular function and clinical parameters (NYHA functional class, mortality and heart       failure hospitalization).        Clinical, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic and electrocardiographic imaging follow-up       will be performed for 1 year.
Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) using the Edwards SAPIEN valve and Retroflex 3       delivery system provides both a mortality and quality of life benefit for inoperable       patients. Only the transfemoral (TF) access has been approved in the US. A substantial number       of patients cannot have a TF approach due to inadequate vessel size, vessel disease, or other       anatomical considerations. The pivotal study did not include an assessment of safety and       effectiveness of alternative access approaches in this inoperable patient group.        Early approaches to TAVR included a femoral transvenous approach with transseptal access to       the left side for delivery of the valve. This approach avoided large bore arterial       catheterization, but it had unacceptable rates of complications and lacked reproducibility.       Alternative access approaches have been developed because of the risks associated with       inserting large caliber catheters into small, diseased femoral arteries often associated with       diffuse vasculopathy. To avoid the vascular complications from femoral access, other       transcatheter approaches have been developed to include open surgical access to the left       ventricular apex (TA), ascending aorta, (TAO), subclavian and axillary arteries (TS), and       retroperitoneal access to the iliac artery (TI) as well as distal aorta. In addition to       providing TAVR to patients who cannot have TF access, additional advantages include better       catheter control and safer closure of the access site. Commonly cited disadvantages include       the need for surgical expertise and additional equipment, along with the potential for longer       recovery, more incisional pain, greater radiation exposure for operators, unsuitable delivery       catheters for alternative access sites, and a host of unique alternative access site       complications.        We propose to collectively analyze 30-day safety endpoints as a lumped data group for these       alternative access approaches. These data are gathered from clinical practice in real-world       settings and submitted to the TVT Registry. It is expected that centers will choose among the       various choices for alternative access based the causative factors underlying the need for       alternative access, as well as local skill sets and experience. For this lumped data group of       alternative access approaches we will compare 30-day safety results to the TA outcomes       reported from Cohort A of the PARTNERS 1 trial. We recognize that these TA patients were high       risk operable patients rather than inoperable patients, but no other direct comparator group       is available. We reason that the TA data from this published clinical trial are high quality,       represent an alternative access approach rather than TF, and will provide a frequency of       safety endpoints that have been found to be acceptable both clinically and from a regulatory       perspective.
nan
The Silk'n Toothwave Device, in its original packaging, along with the user manual will be       provided to the patient in a simulated home use environment. The patient labeling will be in       the format intended for distribution.        All subjects will sign an informed consent before any study activity. Five (5) potential end       users and Additional five (5) contraindicated subjects will be screened for this       self-selection study. Subjects will be provided with the device in its original packaging and       will be evaluated for their ability to decide if they are eligible or they should       self-exclude themselves from use of the device based solely on reading the device labeling       (box and user manual).        Once the subjects complete reviewing the labeling materials (box and user manual) they will       be requested to perform a labeling comprehension exam for testing the ability to correctly       understand the labeling content.        The study will not include treatment.
According to the current dexmedetomidine indication, the duration of dexmedetomidine       administration is limited within 24 hours. However, there is a strong demand from the medical       specialists for continued administration of dexmedetomidine in excess of 24 hours in the       medical practice because a large number of patients require sedation for more than 24 hours       in ICU. To meet such clinical demand, it was planned to conduct a phase III long-term       administration study of dexmedetomidine to obtain the approval on the infusion of       dexmedetomidine for more than 24 hours.
METHODS/DESIGN The study is planned as prospective, multicenter, randomized study. The study       was approved by the local ethics committee, and written informed consent will be obtained       before enrollment of patients.        Inclusion criteria will be the following:          1. Indication for cardiac pacing based on recent guidelines of European Society of            Cardiology (5)          2. High degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block (AV block 2/1 or second degree AV block with            resulting heart rate below 50), or atrial fibrillation with slow conduction to            ventricles.          3. A high probability of needing significant ventricular stimulation (more than 50%)          4. Written informed consent.        Exclusion criteria will be the following:          1. The absence of written informed consent          2. Renal insufficiency (creatinine level more than 130 µmol/l)          3. History of Iodine allergy          4. Claustrophobia          5. Significant valve disease (i.e. mitral insufficiency 75% and worse, moderate or severe            aortic stenosis)          6. Recent (within three months) acute coronary syndrome          7. Planned cardiac surgery (coronary artery bypass grafting, valve surgery)          8. Ejection fraction of left ventricle less than 50%          9. Expected life expectancy less than 3 years         10. Expected non-compliance.        End-points: there are three unique primary end-points: 1) changes in left ventricular       end-systolic volume (LVESV) over time (from baseline to 6 months and 3 years), 2) changes in       the left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF) over time (from baseline to 6 months and 3       years) and 3) changes in concentration of N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide       (NT-proBNP), from baseline to 6 months up to three years).        Secondary endpoints are changes in echocardiography parameters of left ventricular synchrony,       changes in left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) over time and changes in the quality       of life, as assessed by the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure questionnaire, over time       (from baseline to 6 months and 3 years).        Power calculation and statistical analysis: The sample size calculation was based on the       following assumptions: the power of the test = 0.8 and a statistical significance border =       0.05. Based on information from previous trials regarding the effect of pacing on left       ventricular volumes and parameters, it is assumed that there will be at least a 10%       difference in the change of LV end-systolic volume (LVESV, measured from baseline to 3 years       follow-up) between the group paced from apex and the group with true septal pacing. Based on       previous results regarding the efficacy of true septal pacing, based on recent fluoroscopy       criteria, it is assumed that approximately 40% of those randomized to the septal group will       not have the lead located in the septum, but in the anterior wall. This means that 70       patients are needed in the apical group, 70 in the septal group and 70 in the apparent septal       group to achieve statistical significance. Data analysis will be performed using standard       tests (chi-square, Student t-test, Kruskal-Wallis test etc.) For data description, standard       descriptive statistical methods will be used: absolute and relative frequencies for       categorical data and the median with 5-95% percentiles for continuous data. For categorical       variables, statistical analysis will be done using the χ2 or the Fisher exact test; for       continuous variables, the Student t-test, Mann-Whitney U test or Kruskal-Wallis test will be       used. Kaplan-Meier curves will be calculated for visualizing the occurrence of end-points       during follow-up. The influence of patient characteristics on the occurrence of end-points       will be calculated using logistic regression and the Cox proportional risk model, when       appropriate.        Data analysis In the primary analysis, three groups of patients will be analyzed: 1) patients       randomized to RV apical pacing (apex group); 2) patients with true septal pacing (true septal       group, i.e. those randomized to septal pacing, in whom the location of the lead was confirmed       (using cardiac CT) to actually be in the septum), and 3) patients with apparent septal pacing       (apparent septal group, i.e. those randomized to septal pacing, in whom the lead location       will be found to off-septum, based on cardiac CT). The primary goal of the study will be to       confirm that true septal pacing is associated with fewer prominent negative effects on the       left ventricle. A secondary goal is to determine if off-septum placement (i.e., apparent       septal group) has similar negative consequences for the left ventricle as those seen in       apical pacing. In a secondary analysis, the two original groups will be compared (i.e., the       groups randomized to apical vs. septal pacing).        Echocardiographic evaluation All patients will undergo echocardiography before implantation       and during follow-up. Echocardiography will be done in the left lateral decubitus position.       Imaging will be performed using a commercially available echocardiographic system (VIVID 7,       General Electric Ultrasound, Milwaukee, USA). Images will be obtained using a 3.5 Mega Hertz       transducer, at a depth of 16 cm in the parasternal (long and short axis) and apical (two- and       four-chamber images) views. Standard 2D and colour Doppler data, triggered by the Q R S       complex, will be saved in cine-loop format. A minimum of three consecutive beats will be       recorded from each view and the images will be digitally stored for off-line analysis       (EchoPac 7.0.0, General Electric Ultrasound, Milwaukee, USA). Left ventricular end-systolic       volume (LVESV), LV end-diastolic volume (LVEDV), and LV EF will be measured from the apical       two- and four-chamber images, using the (modified biplane) Simpson's rule. (10) Parameters of       interventricular and left ventricular dyssynchrony will be measured off-line using tissue       Doppler.        Conventional tissue Doppler-based dyssynchrony indices will be determined; (11) the standard       deviation (SD) in time to peak velocity in 12 mid and basal segments (Ts SD12), the       difference in time to peak velocity between anteroseptal and posterior wall (Ts AsP), the       difference in time to peak velocity between the septal and lateral wall (Ts SL) as well as       the maximal difference in time to peak velocity in 6 basal segments (Ts Diff6). Moreover,       newer recently published parameters of dyssynchrony, such as apical rocking or septal flash,       will also be measured. (12)        Further examinations before implantation Patients will be asked to complete the Minnesota       Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire and the concentration of NT-proBNP, in peripheral       blood will be measured. Afterwards patients will be randomized to RV apical or RV septal       pacing. Because it can be anticipated that not all leads intended for RV septal implantation       will actually end up implanted in the RV septum (some will be in the free anterior wall or in       the anteroseptal groove), the ratio of randomization will be 2/1 (mid-septal vs. apical).        Implantation will be done using the standard approach, i.e., using the subclavian or cephalic       approach. Only active fixation leads will be used. The position of the lead in the RV apical       group will be assessed by displaying the lead in the anteroposterior (AP), right anterior       oblique (RAO) 30 and left anterior oblique (LAO) 40 projection and stored. For the septal       pacing group, a 3D stylet with two angulations will be prepared, as proposed recently. (9)       Initially, the distal end of a standard stylet will be manually shaped into a smooth large       curve, in a single plane, over a length of about 20 cm using the barrel of a syringe. The       lead, with this J-shape stylet, will be advanced into the RV and further to the pulmonary       artery. Then the stylet will be withdrawn and an additional 90° curve angulation will be       created with the distal 3 cm end of the stylet. The 3D stylet will be inserted into the lead,       and by slight counterclockwise torque applied, the lead will be withdrawn from the pulmonary       artery to the right ventricle. A "jump" is usually seen as the lead falls below the RV       outflow tract. At that point, the lead is quickly advanced and forced against the mid-septum.       This manipulation will be done using RAO 30, and the target position is in the middle of the       cardiac contour. Before final lead fixation, the position of the lead will be checked in the       LAO 40 (the lead should point toward the spine with an angle to the horizontal plane between       0 to 60°). Perioperative fluoroscopy images will be stored, and standard implant parameters       will be measured (impedance, R wave amplitude, and threshold).        Cardiac CT will be performed 6-12 weeks after implantation to assess the true position of the       RV lead in the heart. Before cardiac CT, lead dislodgement will be excluded by measuring       standard lead parameters.        Image acquisition CT will be performed using a 256-detector-row CT scanner (Brilliance CT       256; Philips, Best, The Netherlands) with a tube voltage of 100 kilo Volt (kV), collimation       of 2x128×0.625 mm, a pitch of 0.18, a rotation time of 0.27 s, and a slice thickness of 0.9       mm. A tri-phasic injection of 60 mL of contrast media (Ultravist 370, Bayer Healthcare       Pharmaceuticals, New Jersey, USA) will be used. Initially, 50 mL of contrast agent will be       administered at a flow rate of 4.0 mL/s, followed by 20 mL of 50% contrast/saline.       Subsequently, a saline flush of 30 mL will be administered at a flow rate of 3.0 mL/s. Bolus       tracking will be used for synchronization of the contrast medium injection during scanning.       The region of interest will be the descending aorta. After enhancement reaches 140 hounsfield       Units (HU), there will be 3-s post-threshold delay before the scan is commenced. Prospective       ECG triggered dose modulation (mode "step and shoot") will be used, scanning 70-80% of the R       - R interval. After examination, the displayed dose-length product (DLP) will be recorded to       evaluate radiation dose.        Image post-processing Datasets will be transferred to an external workstation (Comprehensive       Cardiac Analyses, Brilliance Workspace v 4.0, Philips Healthcare, Cleveland, USA) for       off-line analysis. Axial slices, oblique reconstructions and maximum-intensity projection       (MIP) images will be used for precise localization of the RV lead. According to the location       of RV lead, septal group patients will be divided in two sub-groups: true septum group (i.e.       patients randomize to septal pacing, in whom the lead is actually found to be in the septum)       and apparent septum group (i.e. those randomized to the septal pacing, in whom the lead is       found to be off-septum, and typically in the free anterior wall or in the anteroseptal       groove). Because the apical position is easily visible with fluoroscopy, cardiac CT will be       done only in the patients randomized to septal pacing.        Post-implantation follow-up and out-patient controls will be done at 6 months, 1 year, and 3       years. During each control, standard pacemaker parameters (impedance, threshold, and       amplitude) will be measured, and the percentage of ventricular stimulation will be assessed.       During each control, echocardiography will be done, NT-proBNP measured, and patients will be       asked to fulfill the Minnesota questionnaire.
nan
Use of force no greater than 8 pounds of tension will improve lead extraction and minimize       lead displacement compared to current standard of care methods which do not limit the force       applied. Among subjects undergoing lead extraction procedures for CIED infection,       bidirectional rail (superior and inferior) and traction force objective feedback using Force       gauge is associated with minimal displacement (<1cm) of the leads (surrogate marker) on       fluoroscopy compared to conventional lead extraction. • The research nature of the protocol       is explicitly explained to the patient and an informed consent is explained obtained from the       patient prior to the procedure. Only patients with CIED infections requiring lead extraction       are enrolled in the study. Patients are risk stratified based on our current risk       stratifications scheme. Multiple superior and inferior venous accesses are obtained during       the procedure. The leads are prepared using locking stylets. Baseline fluoroscopic image of       the position of the leads is stored. A deflectable sheath and traction forceps are deployed       from the groin to provide downward rail in the force feedback arm. Locking stylet from the       lead is in turn attached to a Force gauge (McMaster-Carr Santa Fe Springs, CA). The procedure       is performed using continuous fluoroscopic image save tool during the procedure for post       procedural viewing and analysis. The patients are randomized to the active arm (to keep force       around 8 lb) or the control arm (tactile force discretion based on the operator. The       investigator is blinded to the force gauge reading for half of the patients enrolled in the       study. For the other half of the patients, the operator optimizes the force to prevent       overexertion (<8-9 pounds). Three point along the lead course evaluated during the study.       Position of downward turn of the lead in the SVC, heel of the lead (only in case of RV lead)       and the lead tip positions are evaluated. The investigators postulate that there will be at       least 5 cine-fluoroscopic views per every lead. The investigators hypothesize that use of       bidirectional rail and force feedback is associated with minimal displacement of the lead on       fluoroscopy.
The aim of this study is to compare 2 approaches for AF treatment, endocardial catheter       isolation of the pulmonary veins (PV) versus minimally invasive thoracoscopic surgical       epicardial ablation.        The patients in both groups will be comparable and have persistant or LSP AF only. Patients       with previous catheter ablations or any interventions or open heart procedures in the       anamnesis will be excluded. The catheter ablation will be Ablation Index-guided, which means       that every ablation point will be taken according to ablation quality marker which corporates       power, delivery time, contact force (CF), and catheter stability, called Ablation Index (AI).       Both of the procedures will be performed by a single identical protocol including wide       complete circumferential ablation around the right and left PVs, and additional lines between       the lower and upper PVs. The thoracoscopic procedure will be supplemented with removal of       left atrial appendage (LAA).        In cases of AF or other atrial tachycardia recurrence after both procedures, every patient       will undergo the opposite procedure (for example, if patient after thoracoscopic ablation       will be diagnosed an AF recurrence, he will undergo catheter ablation). That is why there       will be the third group, the so-called Hybrid procedure group of patients.
This study will collect efficacy data in a randomized controlled setting, including New York       Heart Association (NYHA) class II and III Heart Failure population with baseline ejection       fraction (EF) of 25% to 45%.        There is previous evidence related to the beneficial effect of CCM in patients with baseline       ejection fraction of <35%. While patients with EF between 35% and 45% were not prospectively       studied in the original clinical study initially conducted to support Conformité Européene       (CE) Marking of the OPTIMIZER System, recently available data from a randomized study that       included such patients show CCM to be safe and effective in this group of patients as well.       Furthermore, the literature supports that this population has very similar clinical       characteristics, in practice are treated with nearly the same medications, and have similar       underlying mechanisms of disease compared to patients with EF <35%. CCM has been successfully       used also in patients with EF greater than 35% in routine use and in the FIX-HF-5 study.        Since the system is CE marked and since the population includes patients meeting the approved       indication as well as population that has shown to benefit from CCM (EF 35%-45%), the risk       involved in performing such a clinical investigation seems acceptable.        The study is designed to substantiate the efficacy of CCM in heart failure patients with EFs       in the range of 25%-to-45% (inclusive). This is a prospective, randomized study comparing CCM       plus optimal medical therapy (OMT) (Treatment Group) to OMT alone (Control Group) over a 24       week period. The primary endpoint shall be a comparison of changes in Peak VO2, which is an       established objective physiological indicator of exercise capacity which is relevant in heart       failure device studies. To further improve the accuracy and objectivity of measurements,       double assessment of the Peak VO2 will be performed at each of the primary time points. Tests       can be performed using upright and semi-supine bicycle ergometer or using treadmill. In sites       where more than one option is available, bicycle ergometer is the preferred option. Treadmill       is only allowed in case no bicycle is available at the site. Each subject shall be       consistently tested using the same method throughout the study. The study is designed in an       adaptive manner to ensure proper statistical significance and power of the primary efficacy       evaluation.        The study will collect additional (exploratory) efficacy data on the difference between the       treatment group and control group in the changes over 24 weeks in predicted survival       probability. To evaluate the survival probability, two established models are used: the       Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHFM), and the Meta-Analysis Global Group in Chronic Heart       Failure (MAGGIC) model . These models use information collected at a certain time point to       predict survival probabilities over the following years. The information used for such       prediction includes status of the disease (NYHA, Left Ventricular EF (LVEF)), documented       medical history and co-morbidities, documented therapies and medications, and standard blood       tests values.        Additionally, hospitalization data will be collected from medical records of the site and/or       from any other medical records of clinics/hospitals where the patient may have been treated       for a timeframe of 12 months before enrollment and until 24 weeks after the Study Start Date       (SSD).
Fifty-four participants with NP were randomly allocated to either an MRT (five sessions) or a       physical therapy (PT) groups (ten sessions) during two weeks. Multimodal PT program included:       ultrasound therapy (US), transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) and massage. Visual       Analogue Scale (VAS), range of motion and (CROM) PPTs in sub-occipital and upper trapezius       muscles were measured at baseline, at the end of treatment and at 1 month follow-up. T-tests       and a repeated-measures multivariate analysis of variance (RM-MANOVA) were used for VAS, CROM       and PPTs, respectively.
After adequate stroke prevention (e.g. anticoagulation) and rate control, the optimum       strategy for patients who continue to be symptomatic with persistent AF has not been       established. Cardioversion with antiarrhythmic medication is commonly used as a first-line       rhythm control strategy despite very high recurrence rates of the index arrhythmia and high       serious complications associated with this strategy. Further treatment options, such as       catheter ablation or implantation of a pacemaker and ablation of the atrioventricular (AV)       node, are considered once AF recurs. The benefits of first-line ablation in patients       presenting with persistent AF has not been tested. We seek to perform a blinded, randomised       trial comparing an electrical cardioversion-led strategy with a pulmonary-vein isolation       strategy for the treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation.        No blinded randomised controlled trial comparing early-ablation strategies to       cardioversion-led strategies has been performed. The rationale for blinding where possible in       clinical trials is well established. The recently published ORBITA trial performed a blinded,       multicentre randomised trial of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in stable angina       compared to a placebo procedure. This trial demonstrated that the efficacy of invasive       procedures can be assessed with a placebo procedure and that this type of trial remains       necessary. Knowledge of treatment assignment influences physician behaviour, drug       recommendations and encourages bias in outcome reporting. The treatment effect size and the       effects of confounding factors will be exaggerated and thus limit the interpretation of the       true patient experienced outcomes either strategy. In a comparison of surgical procedures, a       sham-control arm represents the gold standard of blinding. A systematic review of       placebo-controlled surgical trials found no evidence of harm to participants assigned to the       placebo group. For a procedure whose primary purpose is to give sustained symptomatic relief,       definitive quantification of the true placebo-controlled effect size of AF ablation is       necessary. There is a need to clarify the relationship between patient reported symptoms and       the arrhythmia itself. Patient reported symptoms may not always be related to the severity of       the arrhythmia or quality of life. No bias-resistant blinded, randomised, trial has yet been       performed seeking to measure the benefits of AF ablation.
Over the past several years, there has been growing concern over the significant deleterious       effects of RV pacing, including electromechanical dyssynchrony, proarrhythmia and development       of heart failure (HF). However, it remains unclear whether pacing-related ventricular       dyssynchrony can translate into significant LV structural changes and produce important       clinical impairment in an average pacemaker population with compromised AV conduction.       Alternatively, left ventricular pacing has been shown to minimize ventricular dyssynchrony       and to improve symptoms and prognosis in patients with mild to moderated systolic HF and       prolonged QRS duration.        This randomized controlled study is been conducted to compare the effects of conventional       right ventricular (RV) pacing vs. left ventricular (LV) in patients with AV block. The       hypothesis is that isolated LV pacing through the coronary sinus can be used safely and       provide greater hemodynamic benefits to patients with AV block and normal ventricular       function who require only the correction of heart rate.        Specifically, the investigator aims are to evaluate the safety, efficacy and the effects of       left ventricular pacing using active-fixation coronary sinus lead-the Attain StarFix® Model       4195 OTW Lead, compared to right ventricular pacing in patients with implantation criteria       for conventional pacemaker stimulation.
Infection can occur after surgery for either a pacemaker or an implantable defibrillation and       can have very serious consequences. These infections are common and can be seen in as many as       2-3% of high-risk patients. Doctors use antibiotics to prevent these infections, but we do       not know how much or how often to give the antibiotics to get the best effect. It is not       known whether additional antibiotics during and after the operation would further reduce the       risk of infection. This research study will compare two different ways of using common       antibiotics to prevent infection during and following a device procedure. One way is the       standard approach of a single dose before surgery and the other way uses more antibiotics. We       do not know if either way is better. The purpose of this study therefore, is to compare two       types of antibiotic therapy plans to better understand if one is most effective in preventing       infection.        This study will provide the ability to evaluate the feasibility (i.e. site activation,       enrollment, compliance, drop-out) and generate proof of concept for the larger clinical trial       of 12,000 patients in all 25 Canadian Hospitals implanting ICDs, which will be submitted to       the CIHR. Additionally, the study supports the continued initiatives of the network of       physician investigators (Canadian Heart Rhythm Society Device Advisory Committee - CHRS DAC)       collaborating to address arrhythmia procedures related clinical trials that will answer       simple clinical questions that will focus initially on safety issues.
nan
nan
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the value of PET/CT in various inflammatory       conditions caused by bacterial infection or vasculitis. Our aim is to:          1. investigate whether FDG (18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose) PET/CT and            68Ga-(Gallium-68) citrate PET/CT enable the early and accurate detection of metastatic            infection foci in Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.          2. study the usefulness of FDG PET/CT in detection of endovascular infection in bacteremia            caused by Salmonella spp.          3. find an optimal FDG PET/CT protocol for detection of infectious endocarditis and            metastatic infection foci related to endocarditis.          4. study the value of FDG PET/CT in the diagnosis of infection of pacemaker or implantable            cardioverter defibrillator.          5. investigate the usefulness of FDG PET/CT, 68Ga-citrate PET/CT, and 11C- (carbon-11)            translocator protein ligand (PK11195) PET/CT in diagnosis of vasculitis and in imaging            of the magnitude of the vascular changes.
Not applicable. Study not funded.
Venous thrombosis of the upper limb is one of the manifestations of venous thromboembolic       disease.        The epidemiology and management of upper limb venous thrombosis is much less well documented       than that of lower limb venous thrombosis.        The investigators wished to provide epidemiological data concerning upper limb venous       thrombosis in the hospital setting.        The researchers would like to know the prevalence of this pathology among patients       hospitalized in a university hospital center. In order to obtain this prevalence, the       investigators wish to carry out a monocentric cross-sectional descriptive study.        The main objective of the study is to define the prevalence of upper limb venous thrombosis       in patients hospitalized at Nantes University Hospital.        The secondary objectives are to describe the epidemiology according to the patient's       hospitalization sector or the endovenous medical devices used. Another secondary objective is       to describe the clinical signs associated with thromboses and their characteristics.        The investigators wish to include major patients hospitalized at the Nantes University       Hospital in different sectors (medical, surgical, intensive care units). After collecting the       patient's non-opposition, reseachers will carry out a venous duplex ultrasonography of the       upper limbs.        Data concerning the hospitalization unit, the patient's comorbidities, the presence of venous       tracts or other endo-venous devices, clinical signs and duplex ultrasonography data will be       collected using a standardized collection grid.
RESTORE is a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized trial designed to evaluate the safety       and effectiveness of the HARPOON™ Beating Heart Mitral Valve Repair System in patients with       severe degenerative mitral regurgitation (DMR).
1. Introduction             Calcified coronary lesions are frequently observed and with increasing age and            comorbidities of the patients they become even more prevalent (1,2). Calcified lesions            are often difficult to dilate by conventional angioplasty leading to vessel perforation,            dissection, or stent under-expansion, which impact survival, myocardial infarction            rates, and target lesion revascularization (3 - 6). Lesion preparation before stent            implantation has been strongly recommended using high-pressure dilatation,            scoring/cutting balloons, or rotational atherectomy (RA) devices (7-12).             RA can effectively modify calcified plaques by differential cutting, facilitating            balloon dilatation, plaque fracture, stent delivery, and expansion (11). Patients            undergoing RA experienced various clinical and angiographic complications, including            vasospasm, perforation, short term vessel closure, side branch loss, and            slow-flow/no-reflow resulting in stroke, myocardial infarction, and death (12). In the            PREPARE-CALC trial (The Comparison of Strategies to Prepare Severely Calcified Coronary            Lesions Trial) comparing RA and scoring or cutting balloons before drug-eluting stent            implantation achieved a higher procedural success in RA (98% versus 81%), complications            including larger dissection, perforation, and pericardial effusion were seen in 3%, 4%,            and 3% of cases, respectively, in-hospital MACE occurred in 2% of cases (13). In the            ORBIT II trial (14) an alternative atherectomy device was used which is based on the            same mechanism of action as RA. In this trial the primary effectiveness performance            goal, defined as successful stent delivery with residual stenosis < 50% and without            in-hospital MACE, was not achieved in 11.1 % and the in-hospital MACCE rate was at 9.8            %, the rate of periprocedural myocardial infarction (MI), defined as CK-MB level > 3x            ULN at discharge was 9.3% (non-Q-wave MI of 8.6 % and Q-wave MI of 0.7 %).            Peri-procedural MI based on the 4th Universal Definition (15) after RA or ORBIT            atherectomy have not been reported so far.             Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) disrupts subendothelial calcification by            electrohydraulic-generated sonic pressure waves (16,17). In a recently published            multicenter registry 78 patients were assigned to primary IVL therapy for patients with            calcified de-novo lesions (n=39 lesions), secondary IVL therapy for patients with            calcified lesions in which non-compliant balloon dilatation failed (n=22 lesions), and            tertiary IVL therapy in patients with stent under expansion after previous stenting            (n=17 lesions). The primary endpoint of strategy success (stent expansion with <20%            in-stent residual stenosis) was reached in 84.6% with de-novo lesions with only 3 Type B            dissections and no in-hospital MACCE (18). Recently Intravascular Lithotripsy for            Treatment of Severely Calcified Coronary Artery Disease (Disrupt CAD III) Study (19) has            been presented using the same in- and exclusion criteria as the ORBIT II study. The            performance of IVL was compared with the performance of the ORBIT device, as being            reported in the literature (14). The primary safety endpoint (cardiac death, or            myocardial infarction, or target vessel revascularization) as well as the primary            effectiveness endpoint (successful stent delivery with residual stenosis < 50 % and            without in-hospital MACE) were 92.2 %, which were non-inferior to those reported in the            ORBIT II study. Stent expansion was measured by QCA, data on OCT-based measurements of            stent expansion in comparison to RA is not available. The rate of in-hospital            peri-procedural MI, defined as CK-MB level > 3x ULN at discharge, was 6.8 %.            Peri-procedural myocardial infarction and injury are associated with an increased rate            of cardiovascular events at 30 days in patients undergoing elective coronary stenting            (20).             In order to evaluate the effectiveness of IVL in comparison to RA based on OCT-            measurements of stent expansion and to study the incidence of in-hospital MACCE            following either RA or IVL, we aim to perform a randomized trial.          2. Device Description and Intended Use             Devices used in this study are commercially available and should be used according to            labeled indications and the Manufacturers' Instructions for Use (IFU). Reference each            device's IFU for a summary of the necessary training and experience needed to use the            device and a description of the procedures involved in the use of the device.             2.1. Intravascular Lithotripsy System             The Intravascular Lithotripsy System (Shockwave Medical, Inc., Santa Clara, CA) is            designed for the treatment of calcified coronary and peripheral artery stenosis. It is            made up of three components: a battery-powered rechargeable generator capable of            producing 3 kV energy and preprogramed to deliver a fixed number of pulses per balloon,            a cable connector that links the generator with the catheter and a single-use sterile            catheter with a semi-compliant balloon and three miniaturized lithotripsy emitters            distributed along the length of the balloon. These emitters convert electrical energy            into transient acoustic pressure pulses (1 pulse/s for a maximum of 80 pulses per            catheter). IVL balloons are available in sizes ranging from 2.5 to 4.0 mm, with a unique            maximum length of 12 mm. After the lithotripsy balloon is inflated to 405 kPa, pulsatile            energy is emitted for 10 seconds from two emitters localized within the balloon (the            distal emitter is slightly more central to enhance flexibility, whereas the proximal            emitter is located near the proximal end of the balloon); the balloon is then inflated            to 608 kPa. These balloons are compatible with 5 and 6 Fr guide catheters but have a            rather large crossing profile of 0.043-0.046 inches. Detailed information can be found            in the device related IFU.             2.2. RotablatorTM Rotational Atherectomy System             The RotablatorTM Rotational Atherectomy System (Boston Scientific Corp, MA) is designed            for the treatment of calcified coronary artery lesions. It is made up of three            components: a nickel-plated elliptic burr coated with diamond microscopic crystals that            is available in sizes ranging from 1.25 to 2.50 mm diameter; a single advancer that can            transmit rotational speed to the burr and is connected with a gas-driven turbine; and a            control console and foot pedal. An ultrathin (0.009 inch) steerable dedicated guidewire            (RotaWire) of length 330 mm is used to cross the calcified lesion; it is available in a            floppy version or an extra support version, useful primarily in the treatment of            aorto-ostial lesions. The RotaWire must be placed in the main vessel and other            guidewires have to be removed from side branches to avoid wire cutting or perforation.            When the burr is proximal to the lesion, rotablation can be started with short burr runs            (<20 seconds) at a rotational speed of 135.000-180.000 rpm. A burr-to-artery ratio =            0.5-0.75 is adequate in most lesions as an initial approach, but occasionally it may be            necessary to increase the burr size with a step-up approach. Fluoroscopic, acoustic and            tactile signals should be monitored to avoid significant deceleration in rotational            speed (>5,000 rpm), which is associated with complications.             Detailed information can be found in the device related IFU.          3. Objectives        The objective of this prospective, 1:1 randomized, controlled, multicenter trial is to assess       effectiveness and safety of Intravascular Lithotripsy (IVL) compared to Rotational       Atherectomy (RA) treatment in calcified coronary lesions.
All Medtronic market-released leads and all market-released IPG, ICD and CRT devices are       eligible to be included in this study.
Evidence that pre- or perioperative statin treatment may reduce the occurrence of       post-operative atrial fibrillation and improve clinical outcome in patients undergoing       coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or major vascular surgery has been largely generated by       observational studies. In a recent meta-analysis of 6 randomized trials (of which only 2 had       postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) as a predefined outcome) evaluating the use of       perioperative statin treatment in patients undergoing cardiac surgery (n=651 patients in       total - study size between 40 and 200 patients), statin use was found to reduce the patients'       relative risk of developing postoperative AF by 43% (RR 0.57, 95%CI 0.45,0.72) and their       absolute risk by 14% (95% CI 8%,20%). Although these findings would be consistent with a       rapid and, possibly, lipid-independent antiarrhythmic effect of statins, they have important       limitations (e.g., single-centre, small size, lack of continuous ECG monitoring, mostly       "ancillary" findings") and less bearing on current clinical practice, as they mostly included       statin-naïve patients. For these reasons, the recent guidelines for the management of AF have       not given a strong recommendation for the use of statins in the prevention of postoperative       AF. Thus, whether intensive statin treatment in the perioperative period can confer cardio       protection by reduction of atrial oxidative stress & improvement in atrial electrical       remodelling remains to be demonstrated.As endothelial function is a strong determinant of       clinical outcomes, improvement of vascular redox state & increase in nitric oxide       bioavailability of arterial & venous grafts of patients undergoing cardiac surgery may       improve post operative outcomes.However it is still unclear whether higher doses of       atorvastatin could confer additional beneficial effects on human vessels. Adipose tissue (AT)       by releasing vasoactive molecules & adipokines can affect myocardial and vascular biology.       Recent evidence suggests that statins may favourably alter AT biosynthetic activity and       increase the AT release of adiponectin (An adipokine that has been shown to have       anti-inflammatory and anti-atherogenic effects) in turn improving the vascular & myocardial       redox state. However there are only limited data on the effects of statins on human adipose       tissue biology and most findings to date are based on cell lines and/or relevant mouse       models.
Background: Evaluating the autonomic system is conducting, among others, by comparing the       relationships between the two sub-systems that assembler it: the sympathetic and the       parasympathetic systems. In normal conditions, there is balance between both systems which       reflects in a highly dynamic heart rate and heart rate variability. As part of the brain       injury after stroke, the autonomic system is also damaged. The heart rate variability is       decreased and the 24-hour circadian rhythm of heart rate changes.        Purposes of the research: 1. To describe the 24-hour circadian rhythm of heart rate among       patients after stroke in the sub-acute phase during 3 days. 2. To examine the differences in       the circadian rhythm of heart rate along 3 days between patients after stroke in the       sub-acute phase and control group matched by age and gender. 3. To describe the reaction and       examine the differences in reactions of the heart autonomic system during rest, paced       breathing and activity in both groups- stoke and control.        Methods:        Population: 15 patients after cerebrovascular accident (CVA), 1-3 weeks after the stroke. The       patients will be hospitalized in the neurology department at the geriatric "Beit-Rivka"       hospital. The control group will be 15 patients from the orthopedic department of the       hospital' matching by age and gender. Tools: monitoring heart rate and heart rate variability       by Polar watch (Polar RS800CX heart rate monitor). Monitoring activity will measure by       accelerometer. Methods: after attaching to RS800CX watch, each participant will complete two       tests: the response of heart rate to deep breathing and the response of heart rate       variability to prolonged hand grip. The department nurse will be asked to answer a       questionnaire regarding autonomic functions and the examiner will asses the functional       independence of the participant by the "Functional Independence Measure" (FIM). In the       research group will be additional assessments regarding the motor function by the "Stroke       Activity Scale" and the "Scandinavian Stroke Scale". The watch and the accelerometer will       stay on the participant for 3 day (72 hours) and the records regarding the daily activity       such as meals, sleep, and all kind of treatments will be taken from the department's diary.       At the end of three days, the data will be collected and analyzed on computer software.
Evaluation of new therapies for the treatment of heart failure should address mortality,       morbidity, hospitalization, and cardiac symptoms and function when compared to standard       pharmacologic therapy. The COMPANION trial is designed to address all of these objectives.       This clinical investigation is an open-label, prospective, multi-center, randomized clinical       trial. Every patient enrolled in the study is to be prescribed to optimal pharmacologic heart       failure therapy, as tolerated, regardless of randomization.
The IQ101 is the first generation of the non invasive cardiograph. This device uses impedance       to a micro-electric field passing from the electrodes. The NcIQ uses Radio frequencies and       the same 3 dimensional signal averaging algorithm used in the IQ101 to generate hemodynamic       data. The radio waves enables the device to work without the contact lead arrays used in the       IQ2 and can take measurements without even contacting the patient, hence can be applied       through clothing and is simple to apply. This makes the potential use by first responders a       possibility. The device measures the change in the radio wave reflection during the cardiac       cycle to estimate ardiac function. Specifically, it measures cardiac output, the amount of       blood pumped per minute, and other hemodynamic parameters previously only measurable with       invasive catheters. The data us used to generate a LIFESCORE and can measure and report       dangerous trends to the caretaker. The device has a companion device to download the data for       the hospital providers to create a seamless transfer of care. The new device uses technology       similar to the previous generation machine but has been miniaturized, given updated operating       system, and newer computer technology that helped make the device smaller, and faster. The       underlying patented algorithm was not changed. Therefore, it is expected to provide the same       degree of accuracy and precision as the predicate device.        The IQ101 is the first generation of the non invasive cardiograph. This device uses impedance       to a micro-electric field passing from the electrodes. The device can use the impedance and       the change in the impedance during the cardiac cycle to estimate thoracic fluid volumes and       cardiac function. Specifically, it measures cardiac output, the amount of blood pumped per       minute, and other hemodynamic parameters previously only measurable with invasive catheters.       There are many studies documenting the device's performance. The new device uses the same       technology but has been modernized with updated operating system, and newer computer       technology that helped make the device smaller, and faster. The device has also been       redesigned to make operator use simpler and reduce the number wires involved. The underlying       patented algorithm was not changed. Therefore, it is expected to provide the same degree of       accuracy and precision as the predicate device with simplified user interface and lighter,       smaller, more portable housing to improve ease of use.
Obstructive sleep apnea, repetitive airway blockage during sleep, affects 1 in 10 Americans.       If left untreated, it results in decreased quality of life and increased risk of heart       problems. Only half of these people are able to use the main treatment (CPAP) which involves       wearing a mask and hose at night. A new, well-tolerated treatment - tongue stimulation - is a       device which opens the airway during sleep and can provide treatment for patients unable to       use the mask and hose treatment. The study will evaluate the effect of this new treatment on       blood pressure and heart-related measures to see if it lowers patients' risk of heart       problems.
Device-detected sub-clinical atrial fibrillation (SCAF) is a new disorder that has been       recognized since the availability of implantable devices capable of long term continuous       heart rhythm monitoring. It is characterized by one or more runs of rapid atrial arrhythmia       detected by the device without symptoms and without any clinical atrial fibrillation (AF)       detected by the usual methods, (i.e. electrocardiogram, Holter monitor, etc.). In the ASSERT       trial, SCAF was detected by a pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in       nearly 40% of patients during 2 and a half years of follow up. The presence of SCAF increased       stroke risk by 2.5-fold (1). The risk of stroke or systemic embolism among patients with SCAF       and a CHADS2 score ≥ 4 was 2.75% per year. Oral anticoagulation is effective and safe for       stroke prevention in patients with clinical atrial fibrillation, but it is unknown if the       same risk benefit ratio exists for anticoagulation therapy in patients with SCAF (2;3). SCAF       differs from clinical AF in being of shorter duration, being asymptomatic, and often have a       more regular rhythm in the right atrium where it is typically detected. Data ASSERT suggest       that the increase in stroke risk with SCAF may be less than the increase with clinical AF.       Therefore opinion leaders have written that the role of oral anticoagulation for the       treatment of SCAF is uncertain and that randomized trials of anticoagulation are needed       (4;5). Recent surveys of pacemaker clinic practice indicate that only 25% of patients with       SCAF are treated with oral anticoagulation (6;7). Thus there is clinical equipoise for a       trial of oral anticoagulation compared to aspirin in higher risk patients with SCAF.        Apixaban is a Factor Xa inhibitor that is an effective and safe anticoagulant. It has been       shown to have an excellent risk benefit profile for stroke prevention in clinical AF (14,       15). It is highly suitable to test if oral anticoagulation therapy will reduce the risk of       stroke or systemic embolism in SCAF.        Patients will be randomized double-blind to receive apixaban or aspirin. Apixaban dose will       be 5 mg twice daily (2.5 mg twice daily if 2 or more of: age > 80, weight ≤ 60 kg or serum       creatinine ≥ 133 mmol/L). Those assigned to aspirin will receive a dose of 81 mg daily. The       study will be event driven and will continue until 248 patients have experienced a primary       outcome event.
Device replacements occur for many reasons, including elective replacement indication (ERI),       manufacturer advisory, and upgrade.        Recently pacemaker and implantable cardioverter (ICD) advisories have created a dilemma for       both physicians and patients. While the risk of device malfunction is low, replacement rates       following an advisory are usually high and complication rates following device replacement       are not widely known. One retrospective analysis of ICD advisories in Canada reported an       18.3% replacement rate, and subsequent 8.1% complication rate directly related to the       replacement.        Device replacements also occur in order to upgrade an existing system. Clinical studies have       shown that cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) significantly reduces all-cause mortality       and hospitalization in patients with advanced heart failure (HF). As a result of expanding       indications for this therapy, many standard ICD patients are being upgraded to CRT-D systems.       Complication rates related to upgrades of these systems are also not widely known.        To our knowledge, the risk of complications following a device replacement has not been       studied prospectively in any patient population. Limited data are available to guide       physicians when weighing the risks and benefits of device replacement.        This is a prospective multi-center study. 1750 patients at 100 clinical sites will be       enrolled prior to generator replacement. Patients will be implanted and followed for 6 months       to assess any complications related to the replacement procedure.        Patients with any legally marketed device for explant can be enrolled. The replacement device       can be from any manufacturer.
This is a first-in-human, prospective, non-randomized, single arm study to confirm the       efficacy and safety of the Talon Surgical Rook® Epicardial Access Kit to achieve guidewire       access to the pericardial space. Patients who are clinically indicated to undergo a procedure       that requires percutaneous access to the normal, non-distended, pericardial space will be       considered for enrollment into this clinical trial. This may include, but is not limited to,       patients who require pericardial access for epicardial ablation procedure or for pigtail       catheter placement during pacemaker lead extraction. The study population will consist of       both male and female patients of at least 18 years of age. In addition, eligible patients       will have a life expectancy of at least 6 months based on a physician's assessment of the       patient's medical condition. Patients who meet all inclusion and non-exclusion criteria, who       are willing to comply with study follow-up requirements, and for whom documented informed       consent is obtained, will be eligible for enrollment in the study. Enrollment occurs when the       device enters the body.        Patients who undergo attempted use of a study device (patient leaves procedure room with       device having entered the body at some point during the procedure), regardless of whether or       not the device was successfully used for pericardial access, will be followed through       discharge or up to 4 days post procedure, whichever comes first.        The study will include a minimum of 10 patients and up to 30 patients with the study devices       used for pericardial access. Multiple study site may be utilized. The duration of       participation for each enrolled patient who utilizes a study device for pericardial access       will be through hospital discharge, or up to 4 days post procedure, whichever comes first.        A study physician will utilize the Rook® Epicardial Access Kit to gain access to the       pericardial space. The physician will follow the patient through hospital discharge, or up to       4 days post procedure, whichever comes first, for adverse events, and other device or       procedure related observations. The study coordinator or designated study personnel at the       Principle Investigator's office will be responsible for collecting data from the procedure       and hospital stay which will be necessary for completion of case report form for the index       procedure and subsequent follow up.
The role of surgery in active infective endocarditis (IE) has been expanding since the first       report of successful ventricular septal repair and removal of tricuspid vegetation in 1961       and the first successful valve replacement during active IE in 1965 "4".        The risk of death and complications of infective endocarditis (IE) treated medically has to       be balanced against those from surgery in constructing a therapeutic approach .        The results of surgery depend upon many factors. The general preoperative condition of the       patient, antibiotic treatment, timing of surgery, perioperative management, surgical       techniques( including choice of methods for reconstruction), postoperative management, and       follow-up are all important determinants of outcome .        Despite substantial improvements made in the diagnosis and management of infective       endocarditis (IE), infective endocarditis remains a serious condition that is associated with       significant morbidity and mortality. Compared with antibiotic treatment alone, surgery for IE       has greatly increased survival "1".        Surgery for IE is required in 25-30% of cases during the acute phase and in 20-40% during the       convalescent phase "2". The most common indications for surgery in IE include intractable       heart failure, uncontrolled infection related to peri-valvular extension and resistant       organisms, recurrent embolic events and presence of prosthetic material "3".        Risk stratification to identify patients at high risk of developing significant morbidity and       mortality is important in the management of IE. Some authors have found operation during the       acute phase of endocarditis to be associated with a higher risk of persistent or early       recurrent prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE)"5". Other studies did not find an increased       recurrence rate "6", particularly not after surgery for mitral valve endocarditis "7". In       general, the prognosis is better after early surgery undertaken before the cardiac pathology       and the general condition of the patient have deteriorated too severely "8"
nan
Subjects enrolled are those who undergo physical exams and screening tests and were       classified as a patient with symptomatic aortic stenosis or severe aortic regurgitation. They       are then performed transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
nan
Although people with hematological malignancies have to endure long stages of treatment and       inactivity that are known to reduce their physical performance levels, it is still common       practice to rest and avoid intense exercise. Although physical activity and exercise are       important approaches in many diseases, their effects on cancer have been studied recently.       There are still not enough studies in this area and it is not widely used. In recent studies,       it is thought that exercise may benefit the symptoms that develop due to treatment in cancer       patients. Even in the presence of severe myopathy and fatigue, skeletal muscle provides great       adaptation when there is an appropriate exercise stimulus. In addition, exercise can increase       immune functions, so it is thought that exercise practices in hematological cancer patients       can specifically improve cellular functions such as microbial phagocytosis, T-cell       proliferation, vaccine response, and killing tumor cells. There are various studies and       approaches that try to create a different strategy and include physical exercise in the       treatment strategy of hematological malignancies. These exercise programs generally include       aerobics, flexibility and resistance training methods. The necessity of developing       alternative methods to exercise is emphasized in the literature due to the development of       complications that affect participation in basic exercise such as walking. Neuromuscular       electrical stimulation (NMES) has proven efficacy in improving muscle strength in a variety       of populations. NMES training also has applicability for the cancer population to prevent       treatment-related complications and improve health-related quality of life. However, there is       still no high-level evidence to support the administration of NMES in cancer patients. It is       known that the use of corticosteroids, which are among the drugs given during chemotherapy       applications, causes steroid myopathy. In our study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of NMES       applications on muscle strength in hematological cancer patients who developed steroid       myopathy during chemotherapy. In addition, we aimed to evaluate the effect of NMES training       on fatigue, mobility and quality of life in hematological cancer patients.
New-onset postoperative atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery (POAF) is commonly observed       and it increases morbidity, mortality, and health care expenditure. Amiodarone administration       is proposed initial agent for prevention and treatment of POAF, but while useful, this drug       has a number of adverse side-effects and relapse requiring anticoagulation therapy at       hospital discharge is prevalent. Effective medications are needed with respect to management.       Minocycline, an old tetracycline antibiotic, has additional effects including inhibition of       atrial myocyte apoptosis.The finding that apoptosis of right atrial myocytes is thought to be       one etiologic factor underlying POAF supports examining the hypothesis in this project that       adding minocycline to amiodarone could favorably reduce POAF frequency rate. Minocycline has       been used for over four decades and has a good safety profile, therefore this investigation       is not a phase I trial. With a limited sample size, while the data of our MINAA Exploratory       trial (the Minocycline Plus Amiodarone Versus Amiodarone Alone for the Prevention of Atrial       Fibrillation After Cardiac Surgery) were not sufficient to draw definite conclusions, rather       they suggested feasibility of such therapy in this cohort. In the current pilot study, we       assess the clinical effectiveness and safety of minocycline plus amiodarone in preventing       POAF with a larger cohort of two parallel groups (n=40, each) randomly assigned in a 1:1       ratio.In this trial we compare intravenous minocycline 100 mg daily x 5 days starting       intra-operatively combined with oral amiodarone (400 mg twice daily for 7 days, then 200 mg       twice daily for the next 7 days), versus the same dose oral amiodarone alone, for prevention       of POAF among adult patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafts, heart valve repair or       replacement, or combined procedures. All patients receive 150 mg intravenous amiodarone       intraoperatively and a 2nd similar dose of amiodarone bolus is permitted for tachyarrhythmia       any time within 24 hours after surgery.The primary outcome is a newly detected POAF by       telemetry, Holter monitoring, or by daily wireless ECG sensors within 6 weeks from the time       of randomization. Composite secondary outcomes include death at 30 days, length of hospital       stay, and other adverse events.To elucidate how minocycline causally elicits its       pharmacologic effects, sera sampling of biomarkers such as NF-Kappa B, cleaved caspase-3, and       NT-pro-BNP are measured pre-procedure, then on the 3rd and 5th postoperative days. If the       proposed intervention is successful, it underscores what can ensue when the target evolves to       the common population level requiring a nuanced approach pursued by Phase III-IV proposals
nan
This would be a prospective study for which patients not prescribed chronic pain medication       (defined as not using narcotic medications in 3 months prior to surgery) and presenting for       surgery would be recruited. Preop administration of sedating medications (i.e. midazolam)       would be avoided. On the day of surgery, once in OR and standard ASA monitors placed, a       standardized dose of 2mcg/kg ideal body weight IV fentanyl is administered. The patient is       then monitored for respiratory depression for 5 minutes prior to administration of additional       induction agents. [would include respiratory rate, with RR < 10, or O2 Sat < 90%]. Would not       provide supplemental oxygen during this time unless patient was already on supplemental       oxygen. Patient would then be preoxygenated and general anesthesia induced. Once general       anesthesia is induced, a blood sample is collected and stored. [sample could also be       collected in preop upon IV placement]. Blood will be tested for Single Nucleotide       Polymorphisms of genes related to opioid-induced analgesia. [Potential target genes listed in       7.0-1] This genomic data will be evaluated for any correlations of the presence of       opioid-related SNPs and concomitant opioid-induced respiratory depression.
nan
Use of temporary pacing via a right ventricular lead in TAVI is still mandatory to ensure       transient cardiac standstill while predilatation is performed and the valve is being       positioned and deployed. This requires an additional venous vascular access and a pacing       catheter which are both likely to generate complications.        This study compares the standard right ventricular rapid pacing to a new and simplified       technique : a left ventricular rapid pacing is provided via the back-up 0.035 " guidewire.       The cathode of an external pacemaker is placed on the tip of the 0.035" wire and the anode on       a needle inserted into the groin. Insulation is ensured by the balloon or TAVI catheter.
Case: All patients presented with the diagnosis of heart failure with preserved ejection       fraction (HFpEF) to Department of Cardiology, BSMMU were initially approached and then       selected as case on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Heart failure diagnosis       was made according to the 2016 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and       chronic heart failure. All inclusion criteria were established within 24 hours of       presentation. The eligible patients were explained about the study, written informed consent       was taken and demographic data were recorded.        Control group: Apparently normal healthy volunteers were initially approached. Medical       records were reviewed for prevalent cardiovascular disease (stroke, coronary artery disease,       heart failure, arrhythmia), cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes mellitus,       hyperlipidemia, smoking, renal dysfunction), systemic disease (such as cancer, infections,       autoimmune disorders) or any pharmacotherapy Subjects were excluded if any of these were       identified. The eligible patients were explained about the study. Written informed consent       was taken and demographic data, Pulse, blood pressure and respiratory rate were recorded.        Clinical data, including detailed medical history, cardiovascular risk factors and associated       comorbidities of patients with HFpEF were noted. Relevant physical examination was done and       recorded in semi-structured designed data collection sheet. Complementary data were collected       including chest radiography, ECG, Echocardiography, and relevant laboratory tests. The       symptoms of patients were noted. Shortness of breath was graded according to NYHA functional       classification. Venous blood samples were collected in plastic vacuum tubes at room       temperature for analysis of BNP using chemilumunescent micro particle immunoassay (CMIA) on       the ARCHITECT iSystem, on day 1 of presentation in HFpEF cases. Other laboratory       investigations including hemoglobin, serum creatinine, HbA1c in diabetics were also done.        Echocardiography was performed by using Vivid E9 (GE Healthcare, Norway) using a 3.5 Mhz       transducer. ECG leads were connected before analysis. LV diameters were calculated by M-mode       and LVEF by Simpson"s modified biplane method. The LV mass was estimated by using the area       length method and adjusted for body surface area. Echocardiographic LV hypertrophy was       defined as an LV mass index> 115 g/m2 for men and > 95 g/m2 for women. LV geometry was       classified based on relative wall thickness (RWT), defined as (2×diastolic posterior wall       thickness)/LV end-diastolic dimension and Left Ventricular Mass Index (LVMi) as recommended       by the American Society of Echocardiography (ASE): normal = RWT ≤ 0.42 and no LVH; eccentric       hypertrophy = RWT ≤ 0.42 and LVH; concentric remodeling = RWT > 0.42 and no LVH; concentric       hypertrophy = RWT > 0.42 and LVH. Right ventricular (RV) function was assessed by tricuspid       annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and tricuspid lateral annular systolic velocity (S')       by pulsed tissue Doppler. Peak pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PASP) was estimated as       the sum of peak RV-right atrial gradient from the tricuspid valve regurgitant jet and right       atrial pressure on the basis of size and collapsibility of inferior vena cava. Presence and       severity of valvular heart diseases were assessed by color Doppler imaging and image guided       pulsed and continuous Doppler studies according to 2014 AHA/ACC Guidelines for the Management       of Patients with Valvular Heart Disease. Patients with more than mild valvular heart diseases       were excluded.Diastolic function parameters were measured as follows: peak early diastolic       filling (E) and late diastolic filling (A) velocities, E/A ratio, E deceleration time, early       diastolic septal and lateral mitral annular velocity (e'), average E/E', peak TR jet       velocity, left atrial volume index. Left atrial volume index was calculated using biplane       area-length method from apical four and two chamber views at end-systole from the frame       preceding mitral valve opening and was indexed to body surface area. Diastolic dysfunction       was classified into three grades according to 2016 ASE/EACVI guidelines.        LV longitudinal strains were analyzed by 2D speckle tracking echocardiography for both       controls and patients with HFpEF. Cardiac cycles were obtained during a breath hold in       end-expiration. Special care was taken to obtain correct view and checking for       foreshortening. Endocardial border was traced at end systole, with a frame rate of       50-80/second, from apical long axis, four chambers and two-chambers view. In case of poor       tracking, region of interest (ROI) was readjusted. The results of all three planes were       combined in a single bull"s eye summary, along with a global longitudinal strain value (GLS)       for the LV which was automatically calculated by automated function imaging (AFI). All strain       analysis on HFpEF, and normal control subjects was be performed by a single investigator. Two       independent investigators analyzed the echocardiography recordings blinded to clinical data.       The intra-observer and inter-observer variability of GLS was assessed from 10 randomly       selected patients by intra-class correlation coefficient(R). The R value for intra-observer       variability was 0.983 and for inter-observer variability was 0.980. This showed good       reproducibility of GLS for both same and different operators.
Evidence exists that oxidative stress is enhanced in congestive heart failure patients       resulting in damage to cellular lipids, proteins and DNA. Because of free radical-induced       apoptosis of skeletal muscle fibers, oxidative stress is an important contributor to skeletal       muscle fatigue and low exercise tolerance of congestive heart failure patients. Enhanced       oxidative stress in congestive heart failure can exert negative inotropic effects and can       have important effects on the structure and function of the myocardium, and may be implicated       in the progression of congestive heart failure. Free radical stress could also impair       recruitment and differentiation of circulating endothelial progenitor cells resulting in       increased all cause mortality.        Reduced pulmonary clearance of free radical loaded white blood cells and platelets is an       important contributor to enhanced oxidative stress in congestive heart failure patients.       Failure of pulmonary clearance of free radical loaded white blood cells and platelets       probably results from pulmonary congestion which has led to the rationale of the current       study. Biventricular pacing for resynchronization therapy in congestive heart failure       patients reduces left ventricular filling pressure and pulmonary congestion. Biventricular       pacing may therefore augment pulmonary clearance of free radical loaded white blood cells and       platelets in congestive heart failure patients.        We conduct a prospective, observational clinical study to investigate the correlation of left       ventricular filling pressure, pulmonary clearance of FR loaded circulating white blood cells       and platelets and number of endothelial progenitor cells in congestive heart failure (CHF)       patients before and after implantation of a biventricular pacemaker for resynchronization       therapy.
DEFINIT-P is a single center randomized controlled trial and registry.        This pilot study will determine the feasibility of a larger, multi-center randomized clinical       trial which aims to evaluate the efficacy of a supervised exercise program and nutritional       supplement program in reversing or preventing progression of frailty in cardiac device       recipients.        The future trial would also examine the physiologic effects of exercise and nutritional       supplementation to understand their effects on blood biomarker profiles, which will provide       insight into potentially targetable mechanisms underlying frailty.
Heart failure (HF) is common and growing healthcare concern. Heart failure affects nearly 6       million Americans. It results in over one million annual hospital discharges as the primary       discharge diagnosis and an additional two million hospitalizations where HF contributes to       the discharge diagnosis. Despite a relative reduction in the hospitalization rate of HF, the       actual number of HF hospitalizations remains over one million annually. This figure is       expected to significantly worsen with the aging United States population and the growing HF       prevalence. Over 80% of patients who are hospitalized are initially seen in the emergency       department (ED). However, not all those seen in the ED for HF are admitted; a sizeable       proportion are discharged home without hospitalization. As disposition decisions for those       who present to the hospital rest largely with ED providers, the ED will play an even bigger       role in the management of HF patients and in avoiding unnecessary hospitalizations.        The ED is the gatekeeper for AHF evaluations. Nearly one million ED visits for acute heart       failure (AHF) occur annually in the United States. Importantly, the ED is the safety net for       AHF care and often sole provider of AHF care to vulnerable patients. To optimize care and       reduce ED and hospital revisits, there has been significant emphasis on improving transitions       at the time of hospital discharge for HF patients. Such efforts have been almost exclusively       directed at hospitalized patients; individuals with AHF who are discharged from the ED miss       the benefits of transitional care initiatives.        Ensuring optimal transitions of care for discharged ED AHF patients is a critical unmet need.       Data show AHF patients discharged from the ED receive suboptimal guideline directed medical       therapy (GDMT), suggesting interventions to improve AHF transitions are needed in the ED       setting. This is particularly true for patients that are in resource limited settings, many       of whom have vulnerable characteristics. By default the ED is often the sole or primary       provider of HF care to this group of patients who are discharged from the ED.        The proposal, "Get with the Guidelines in ED Patients with Heart Failure (GUIDED-HF)", is       designed to answer two fundamental questions about vulnerable patients with AHF discharged       from the ED:          1. Does GWTG:HF implementation by a transition nurse coordinator directed team (TNC Team)            reduce disparities in time to ED/clinic revisit or hospital admission or cardiovascular            death over the 3-month period immediately following the index ED visit?          2. Does GWTG:HF implementation by a TNC Team reduce disparities in patient satisfaction, HF            knowledge and QOL over the 3-month period immediately following the index ED visit?        Patients hospitalized for HF continue to have a high risk of adverse post-discharge outcomes.       Although there has been a relative reduction in rehospitalization and mortality rates for AHF       patients post-discharge after a significant recent effort by hospitals to avoid CMS financial       penalties, the absolute risk remains very high. The one-month post discharge readmission risk       is 20-25% and one-year post discharge mortality is 25-30%. These results are from       institutions who have implemented significant in-hospital case management programs with a       specific focus on transitions of care, including early post-discharge follow-up. ED patients       discharged with AHF have more vulnerable characteristics, have a higher risk of readmission,       and are not included in hospital programs targeted to help them. This proposal will study a       significant unmet need, projected to get worse, and for which no evidence based data       currently exist to guide management. Even a modest reduction in the risk for ED revisits or       hospital admissions has the potential for significant clinical and patient centric benefits       in patients with AHF discharged from the ED.
nan
Part I: This part will be an observational exploratory analysis to collate available data       from Treatment of preserved cardiac function heart failure with an aldosterone antagonist       trial (TOPCAT) cohort regarding the potential role of clinical phenotype, structural       alterations and biomarkers profiles that can help determine symptom severity in a AS and       HFpEF, and offer insights into which patients with AS may suffer from HFpEF after aortic       valve replacement (AVR).        Part II: This part will be a prospective cohort study to create an AS functional capacity       score that will include phenotypic classification, structural alterations using novel       echocardiographic parameters such as cardiac mechanics, biomarkers profiles and frailty       evaluation in order to more accurately predict functional capacity before (Segment A) and       after aortic valve intervention (Segment B) and to compare with healthy control group       (Segment C).
nan
nan
nan
Evaluation's objectives:        Comparison of remote device check and in-clinic device assessment. To assess patient ease of       use of, and satisfaction with, the Medtronic CareLink® Monitor To assess clinician ease of       use of, and satisfaction with, the Medtronic CareLink® Monitor and Website To assess the       clinic specific clinical value of Medtronic CareLink® Network Demonstrate time savings for       patients Demonstrate time savings for physicians To show the increase of efficiency through       increased flexibility and per procedure time To demonstrate better handling of unscheduled       activities (symptoms, events, etc.)
120 patients with DCM due to cervical spinal canal stenosis will be examined preoperatively       and postoperatively with nTMS. On the basis of the initial Japanese Orthopedic Association       (JOA) Score two patient groups will be established (JOA≤12/>12). The resting motor threshold,       recruitment curve, cortical silent period and motor area will be determined. Accordingly, 40       healthy subjects will be examined.        To the investigators knowledge, this study is the first to analyze changes of corticospinal       excitability and reorganization in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy with       navigated TMS. In the present study, there was a significant difference in parameters of       excitability and motor area activation between the severely symptomatic and clinically stable       patient group. The investigators analysis showed that chronic CSM induces a recruitment of       the non-primary motor area and corticospinal disinhibition, so that axonal damage can be       compensated through recruitment of new cortical and supplementary motor connections, to a       certain degree. Upon exhaustion of these mechanisms further axonal damage translates directly       into new neurological deficits. These results lay the ground for a novel concept in CSM, the       "corticospinal reserve capacity".        This study lays the foundation for future research to examine the pathomechanisms in CSM.       Functional reorganization occurs on a spinal as well as on a cortical level. The concept of       the corticospinal reseve capacity describes a compensatory, increased recruitment of non       primary motor areas and corticospinal disinhibition in order to preserve motor function. By       detecting the degree of reorganization, a stratification for an unfavourable as well as       stable clinical course could be made. This innovative approach to describe the       pathomechanisms in CSM might revise current concepts of clinical diagnostics and might have       an impact on future treatment strategies.
Accent Cardiac MRI study was a prospective, randomized ,multi-center study conducted in Asia.       Subjects indicated for dual-chamber pacemaker and who signed study consent form were       considered enrolled and post implant were randomized to either Cardiac MRI Scan Group or       Control Group.        Clinical evaluation and device interrogation were performed at baseline, pre- and post-MRI       scan, and one month post-MRI for all subjects. At 9-12 weeks post-implant, patients in       Cardiac MRI Scan Group underwent an elective non-diagnostic cardiac MRI scan at 1.5 Tesla (T)       while patients in Control group underwent device interrogation and clinical evaluation twice       with a 45-minute waiting period in between. The safety endpoint was freedom from MRI-related       complications while efficacy endpoint was change in right atrial/ ventricular (RA/RV) capture       threshold and sensing amplitude from pre-MRI scan to one month post-MRI scan.
Background: Balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV) is a vital part of the transcatheter aortic       valve implantation (TAVI) procedure. There is a lack of long-term evidence in patients       undergoing direct TAVI without predilatation.        Trial: This is a prospective multi-center randomized trial.        Participating medical centers:          1. 1st Department of Cardiology, Hippokration Hospital/Athens Medical School, Athens,            Greece          2. Heart Institute, Hadassah Hebrew University Medical Center, POB 12000, Jerusalem 91120,            Israel.          3. Department of Cardiology, Division of Internal Medicine, University Medical Centre            Ljubljana, Zaloška 7, SI-1525 Ljubljana, Slovenia.          4. Department of Cardiology, Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center, Athens, Greece          5. Second Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece        Description: Patients will undergo a physical exam, coronary angiography and computed       tomography angiography before TAVI. The randomization for direct or non-direct TAVI will take       place 24 hours prior to the procedure by the core lab at Hippokration Hospital in Athens. The       same lab will analyze in blind fashion the results of all the imaging modalities for each       patient. The patients will be followed during the hospital stay and at 30 days and 1 year       thereafter by echocardiography. The procedure of predilatation will be at the operator's       discretion. Access sites for TAVI are: transfemoral, subclavian and transaortic.
Patient Population, Recruitment, and Consent:        Patients presenting to the Houston Methodist DeBakey CMR Laboratory will be enrolled from       April 2008 to April 2038. It is expected that up to 100,000 patients may be enrolled during       this period.        Subjects will be identified based on their referral to the Houston Methodist DeBakey CMR       Laboratory for MRI studies during the proposed study period.        After enrollment, a registered nurse or physician will perform a thorough structured patient       interview and/or review of electronic health records to document baseline medical history       including cardiac risk factors, symptoms, medication usage, and prior procedure history. A       small blood sample will be drawn and stored for future biomarker and/or genetic testing       analysis. Annual follow up for clinical status will be performed via review of electronic       health records; structured telephone interviews with the patients, relatives, and/or their       health care providers; and/or the social security death index database.
This study is a prospective, multi-center global study.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is present in 40%-60% of patients with rheumatic mitral valve       disease (RMVD), which is an independent predictor of mortality and late stroke. During mitral       valve (MV) surgery, the open left atrium facilitates a bi-atrial ablation procedure. However,       a simplified lesion set including isolated pulmonary vein isolation or posterior left atrial       (LA) wall isolation or LA maze was usually applied. The current literatures provide       insufficient evidence to determine the potential benefits of bi-atrial ablation procedure       when comparing with LA ablation procrdure in patients with non-paroxysmal AF and RMVD.        Patients with RMVD often have longer history, which tends to affect the right atrium,       including pulmonary hypertension or tricuspid regurgitation.The necessity of bi-atrial       ablation procedure targeting the bi-atrial substrate for AF in RMVD requires to be explored.       In this study, we aimed to compare the efficacy of bi-atrial ablation with LA ablation for AF       during MV surgery in patients with RMVD.
Implantation of a femoral percutaneous aortic prosthesis (TAVI) has become a routine therapy       for elderly patients with severe aortic stenosis (SA) and a high or intermediate surgical       risk. With growing experience of intereventional temas with the technique, improvement of       device technology, and expansion of the technique to patients with lower surgical risk, the       procedure is mostly currently performed under local anaesthesia with or without conscious       sedation (TAVR-LA-CS) rather than by the traditional general anaesthesia approach (TAVR-GA).        The purpose of this study is to compare the safety (primary outcome) and efficiency       (secondary outcome) of local anesthesia (LA) with conscious sedation (CS) versus general       anesthesia (GA) for the TAVR procedure performed with transfemoral access.        This is a blindly randomized, non-inferiority controlled trial. The study will include all       consecutive patients referred to the Cardiology Department of the CHU of Montpellier, France,       for TAVR by transfemoral access which is the default strategy. Procedure is indicated for       severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis with high or intermediate surgical risk or with       contraindication to surgery and after decision of the multidisciplinary team according to the       current recommendations of the European society of cardiology. Patients are randomized into       two groups with surgical risk stratification : one with general anesthesia (experimental       group) and one with local anesthesia with sedation: (control group) in a 1/1 ratio. Exclusion       criteria include contraindication to GA or LA-CS based on hemodynamic status or       comorbidities. The primary composite endpoint combines the major peri and post-operative       adverse events (72 hours), including hemodynamic instability and major complications (VARC 2       criteria). Secondary criteria include length of intensive care unit (ICU) hospitalization and       total hospital stay, duration of intervention, analgesic dose up to 72 hours, finger oximetry       results, transition to GA in the AL group, fluoroscopic time, patient and operator       satisfaction (questionnaires for patients, interventional cardiologists and       anesthesiologists) and mortality at 30 day follow-up.        It is expected that 20% of patients will have an event defined by the main judgement outcome.       To balance the various expected benefits of LA-CS over the length of stay, duration in ICUC       and opioid drug use, the non-inferiority threshold was set at an absolute difference of up to       15%, or 35% of event rates in the experimental arm.        Based on this threshold and the above assumptions, and using 80% power and 5% Type I error       (for a one-sided test), 109 patients are must be included in each arm, for a total of 218       patients with a randomization rate of 1:1.        The inclusion period will be 24 months or as soon as the required number of subjects is       reached. Follow-up includes a medical assessment during the peri-operative period (72h) and       at the end of the hospital stay and a clinical evaluation by phone survey at 30 days.
Inflammation is known to have a detrimental effect on outcome of patients with myocardial       infarction (MI) [1, 2] as well as reperfusion injury (RI) [3]. Previous trials have shown       correlation between the extent of an inflammatory response and postoperative complications       and worse outcomes in patients undergoing cardiac surgery [4, 5, 6, 7] including valve       replacement [8]. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) may be associated with       inflammation [5, 9] as well. A few possible mechanisms may be responsible, such as tissue       injury due to mechanical trauma, vascular complications, and possible suboptimal organ       perfusion due to bleeding, ventricular pacing, balloon valvuloplasty, deployment,       post-dilatation, or repositioning of the valve prosthesis [10]. Accumulating data show that       peri-procedural inflammation is associated with worse outcomes and complications of TAVR [11,       12, 13, 14, 15], and may predict increased mortality in patients after TAVR [16, 17, 18, 19,       20].        Inflammation is a complex process and includes many types of cells including mast cells. The       association between mast cells, as part of the inflammatory process, and RI has been       thoroughly studied. Mast cells have been linked to RI in many organs [21], contributing to       insult to the myocardium. This association has been suggested from animal models [22, 23, 24]       as well as recent human trials which showed that tryptase, an abundant protease found in mast       cell granules, is elevated in ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients       treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) [25].        Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that mast cells may have a role in the inflammation       process involved in patients undergoing TAVR. Moreover, such association with mast cells may       be used to predict adverse outcomes.        To our knowledge, an association between mast cells and outcomes of patients undergoing TAVR       has not been studied.        METHODS Peripheral venous blood from 30 patients undergoing TAVR will be withdrawn to examine       tryptase levels, as a marker of mast cell activity. Blood samples will be taken at 0 hours       (before the procedure) and a second sample will be taken up to 2 hours post-procedure.        CRP will be examined in each patient pre and post TAVR. Tryptase levels will be examined in       10 patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography.        PRIMARY OBJECTIVE We aim to: 1. Characterize tryptase levels dynamics during TAVR 2.       Demonstrate whether tryptase level post-TAVR can be used as a prognostic marker.        Primary outcome - mortality at 1 year Secondary outcomes - Major complications at 7 days and       30 days, including death, major stroke, acute kidney injury, paravalvular regurgitation,       permanent pacemaker implantation, coronary artery obstruction, heart block, vascular injury,       pericardial hemorrhage.        REFERENCES:          1. Patel MR, Mahaffey KW, Armstrong PW, Weaver WD, Tasissa G, Hochman JS, Todaro TG, Malloy            KJ, Rollins S, Theroux P, Ruzyllo W, Nicolau JC, Granger CB. Prognostic usefulness of            white blood cell count and temperature in acute myocardial infarction (from the CARDINAL            Trial). Am J Cardiol 2005;95:614-618.          2. Theroux P, Armstrong PW, Mahaffey KW, Hochman JS, Malloy KJ, Rollins S, Nicolau JC,            Lavoie J, Luong TM, Burchenal J, Granger CB. Prognostic significance of blood markers of            inflammation in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing            primary angioplasty and effects of pexelizumab, a C5 inhibitor: a substudy of the COMMA            trial. Eur Heart J 2005;26:1964-1970.          3. Ibáñez B, Heusch G, Ovize M, Van de Werf F. Evolving therapies for myocardial            ischemia/reperfusion injury. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015 Apr 14;65(14):1454-71.          4. Cremer J, Martin M, Redl H, Bahrami S, Abraham C, Graeter T, Haverich A, Schlag G, Borst            HG. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome after cardiac operations. Ann Thorac Surg            1996;61:1714-1720.          5. Lindman BR, Goldstein JS, Nassif ME, Zajarias A, Novak E, Tibrewala A, Vatterott AM,            Lawler C, Damiano RJ, Moon MR, Lawton JS, Lasala JM, Maniar HS. Systemic inflammatory            response syndrome after transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement. Heart 2015            Apr;101(7):537-45.          6. Kilger E, Heyn J, Beiras-Fernandez A, et al. Stress doses of hydrocortisone reduce            systemic inflammatory response in patients undergoing cardiac surgery without            cardiopulmonary bypass. Minerva Anestesiol. 2011;77:268-274.          7. Clarizia NA, Manlhiot C, Schwartz SM, et al. Improved outcomes associated with            intraoperative steroid use in high-risk pediatric cardiac surgery. Ann Thorac Surg.            2011;91(4):1222-1227.          8. Prat C, Ricart P, Ruyra X, et al. Serum concentrations of procalcitonin after cardiac            surgery. J Card Surg. 2008;23(6):627-632.          9. Stähli BE1, Grünenfelder J, Jacobs S, Falk V, Landmesser U, Wischnewsky MB, Lüscher TF,            Corti R, Maier W, Altwegg LA. Assessment of inflammatory response to transfemoral            transcatheter aortic valve implantation compared to transapical and surgical procedures:            a pilot study. J Invasive Cardiol. 2012 Aug;24(8):407-11.         10. Sinning JM1, Scheer AC, Adenauer V, Ghanem A, Hammerstingl C, Schueler R, Müller C,            Vasa-Nicotera M, Grube E, Nickenig G, Werner N. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome            predicts increased mortality in patients after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.            Eur Heart J. 2012 Jun;33(12):1459-68.         11. Masson JB1, Kovac J, Schuler G, Ye J, Cheung A, Kapadia S, Tuzcu ME, Kodali S, Leon MB,            Webb JG. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation: review of the nature, management, and            avoidance of procedural complications. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Sep;2(9):811-20.         12. Toggweiler S1, Webb JG. Challenges in transcatheter aortic valve implantation. Swiss Med            Wkly. 2012 Dec 17;142:w13735.         13. Rettig TC1, Rigter S1, Nijenhuis VJ2, van Kuijk JP2, ten Berg JM2, Heijmen RH3, van de            Garde EM4, Noordzij PG. The systemic inflammatory response syndrome predicts short-term            outcome after transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation. J Cardiothorac Vasc            Anesth. 2015 Apr;29(2):283-7.         14. Krumsdorf U1, Chorianopoulos E, Pleger ST, Kallenbach K, Karck M, Katus HA, Bekeredjian            R. C-reactive protein kinetics and its prognostic value after transfemoral aortic valve            implantation. J Invasive Cardiol. 2012 Jun;24(6):282-6.         15. Van Linden A1, Kempfert J, Rastan AJ, Holzhey D, Blumenstein J, Schuler G, Mohr FW,            Walther T. Risk of acute kidney injury after minimally invasive transapical aortic valve            implantation in 270 patients. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2011 Jun;39(6):835-42; discussion            842-3.         16. Zahn R, Gerckens U, Grube E, Linke A, Sievert H, Eggebrecht H, Hambrecht R, Sack S,            Hauptmann KE, Richardt G, Figulla HR, Senges J. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation:            first results from a multi-centre real-world registry. Eur Heart J 2011;32:198-204         17. Sinning JM, Ghanem A, Steinhauser H, Adenauer V, Hammerstingl C, Nickenig G, Werner N.            Renal function as predictor of mortality in patients after percutaneous transcatheter            aortic valve implantation. JACC Cardiovasc Interv 2010;3:1141-1149.         18. Nuis RJ, van Mieghem NM, Tzikas A, Piazza N, Otten AA, Cheng J, van Domburg RT, Betjes            M, Serruys PW, de Jaegere PP. Frequency, determinants and prognostic effects of acute            kidney injury and red blood cell transfusion in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic            valve implantation. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2011;77:881-889.         19. Aregger F, Wenaweser P, Hellige GJ, Kadner A, Carrel T, Windecker S, Frey FJ. Risk of            acute kidney injury in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis undergoing            transcatheter valve replacement. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2009;24:2175-2179.         20. Bagur R, Webb JG, Nietlispach F, Dumont E, De Larochelliere R, Doyle D, Masson JB,            Gutierrez MJ, Clavel MA, Bertrand OF, Pibarot P, Rodes-Cabau J. Acute kidney injury            following transcatheter aortic valve implantation: predictive factors, prognostic value,            and comparison with surgical aortic valve replacement. Eur Heart J 2010;31:865-874. Van            Linden A, Kempfert J, Rastan AJ, Holzhey D, Blumenstein J, Schuler G, Mohr FW, Walther            T. Risk of acute kidney injury after minimally invasive trans-apical aortic valve            implantation in 270 patients. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2011;39:835-42.         21. Yang MQ1, Ma YY, Ding J, Li JY. The role of mast cells in ischemia and reperfusion            injury. Inflamm Res. 2014 Nov;63(11):899-905.         22. Masini E, Giannella E, Bianchi S, Mannaioni PF: Histamine and lactate dehydrogenase            (LDH) release in ischemic myocardium of the guinea-pig. Agents Actions 1987;20:281-283.         23. Masini E1, Bianchi S, Gambassi F, Palmerani B, Pistelli A, Carlomagno L, Mannaioni PF.            Ischemia reperfusion injury and histamine release in isolated and perfused guinea-pig            heart: pharmacological interventions. Agents Actions. 1990 Apr;30(1-2):198-201         24. Frangogiannis NG1, Perrard JL, Mendoza LH, Burns AR, Lindsey ML, Ballantyne CM, Michael            LH, Smith CW, Entman ML. Stem cell factor induction is associated with mast cell            accumulation after canine myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. Circulation. 1998 Aug            18;98(7):687-98.         25. Shaomin Chen, Di Mu, Ming Cui, Chuan Ren, Shu Zhang, Lijun Guo, and Wei Gao. Dynamic            changes and clinical significance of serum tryptase levels in STEMI patients treated            with primary PCI. Biomarkers. 2014 Nov;19(7):620-4.
Heart failure (HF) is becoming increasingly recognized with an estimated worldwide prevalence       of >37.7 million individuals. In the United States alone, there are over 5 million patients       with HF which is expected to increase to over 8 million by 2030. Despite advances in medical       therapies and technology, HF remains the leading cause of hospitalization among adults and       the elderly. By 2030, the medical costs of HF are expected to rise from $20.9 billion to       $53.1 billion, with nearly 80% of the projected increased expenses attributes to       hospitalization costs. As such, it is imperative to develop new technologies and treatment       options to impact the HF epidemic.        The majority of HF hospital admissions are due to volume overload. Stiffened and/or weakened       myocardium predisposes patients to the accumulation of extracellular fluid resulting in       increased intracardiac filling pressures and symptoms of congestion (edema, dyspnea and       orthopnea). Accurate assessment of a patient's volume status remains clinically challenging       at times. While there have been technological advances in the outpatient monitoring of volume       status through thoracic impedance and pulmonary artery pressure monitoring, there are no       validated, non-implantable options for monitoring volume status outside of the physical exam.        Aidar Health's MouthLab device is a non-invasive, hand-held, home monitoring tool that       measures multiple medical parameters such as - Temperature, Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Heart       Rate Variability, Pulse Rate, SpO2, single-lead ECG, Respiratory Rate, Breathing       Pattern/Respiratory Flow Cycle Morphology, and basic lung functions (FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC,       PEF) in 30 seconds.        The investigators believe that the MouthLab device holds the potential to identify changes in       volume status through measurements such as pulse rate, oxygen saturation, respiratory flow       and lung function and accurately predict decompensation in patients with chronic HF. The       investigators propose the following outline of clinical studies to evaluate the utility of       the MouthLab device in HF.
Persistent AF was defined as AF lasting more than 7 days and long-standing persistent AF as       continuous AF for more than 12 months. Concomitant surgical AF ablation was offered to       suitable patients as determined by the surgeon, and patients then decided whether to undergo       the additional procedure.        The operations were performed through median sternotomy and under cardiopulmonary bypass. The       bipolar ablation clamp was positioned precisely around the pulmonary veins (PV) for bilateral       circular ablation. After Marsh ligament cutting and cross-clamping the ascending aorta, the       left atrial appendage was resected and left atrial cavity exposed through an incision behind       the interatrial groove. Then, linear ablations were performed between the left and right       inferior PVs, between the left and right superior PVs, between the left superior PV and the       opening of the left atrial appendage, and between the line connecting bilateral inferior PVs       and the mitral valve isthmus. Ablation at the right atrium was then performed. Briefly, the       bipolar ablation clamp was positioned around the inferior vena cava (IVC) and right atrial       appendage for circular ablation. An L-shaped incision was then made on the anterior wall of       the right atrium and linear ablations were performed vertically from the incision to the       interatrial groove and tricuspid annulus, to the ablation ring around the right atrial       appendage, and from the superior vena cava to the ablation ring around the inferior vena       cava.        The left atrial appendage was always excluded by resection and the incision was closed with       continuous running stitches. Temporary pacemakers were placed in all patients and activated       when heart rate was less than 70 beats per minute.
Single-arm, descriptive, multi-center, international        All subjects will be treated with a Medtronic Evolut™ PRO+ TAVR System. Subject follow-ups       will be conducted at pre and post-procedure, discharge, 30 days, 6 months, and annually       through 5 years.
nan
A staged pre-market, single-arm, clinical study designed to collect acute and long-term       safety and efficacy data for the Adagio AF Cryoablation System (iCLAS™). Patient population       will consist of symptomatic, persistent AF subjects completing a de novo ablation procedure.       Enrollment will be 200 subjects at up to 20 global investigational sites. Subjects will       receive an ablation with the ultra-low cryoablation device. Follow-up will include assessment       at one, three, six, and twelve months.
Methods:        The study was conducted at the cardiac paediatric cardiac intensive care unit of National       Cardiovascular Center Harapan Kita. It was performed on paediatric congenital heart disease       population who underwent open heart surgery with randomised, double-blind, controlled trial       design. All patients with congenital heart disease, 3 years old or less, were included. Types       of congenital heart disease suffered required subject to undergo surgery using       cardiopulmonary bypass machine with Aristotle score of 6-9. Surgery was aimed for       biventricular repair.        The sample size needed almost 200 patients with 50% is in the treatment group. This       calculation was based on 90% of patients will be extubated and expected hazard ratio of       corresponding treatment group is 1.7 with 5% alpha error and 20% beta error.        Patients were randomised using block randomisation procedure. The stratification factor will       be age at the time of recruitment: < 6 weeks old, 6 weeks - 5 months old, > 5 months - 3       years old. Randomization will occur on the day of surgery.        The placebo - saccharum lactis - OR oral T3 (Tetronine, Dalim Biotech Korea) with the dose of       1 mcg per kg body weight were administered via nasogastric tube for every 6 hours starting       from the time of anaesthesia induction until 11 doses in total (60 hours after the initial       administration). Serial free T3 (FT3) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) measurement were       performed starting from the induction of anaesthesia until patient's discharge. Haemodynamics       monitoring and echocardiography evaluation was conducted from day 1 to 3 after the surgery.        Statistical analysis:        Primary analysis will be performed using Cox Proportional Hazards for time to extubation       result, including terms for stratification factors (age, Aristotle score and nutrition       status). Patients will be included in analysis if they were randomised and received at least       one dose of study drug according to the principal of Intention-to-Treat (ITT).
Chagas disease is an endemic problem in Latin America, where millions of people are       chronically infected by Trypanosoma cruzi. The disease has also recently become clinically       and epidemiologically relevant in several other countries due to social factors related to       individuals migration and globalization. Chagas cardiomyopathy occurs in 30%-50% of the       infected individuals, leading to considerable morbidity and mortality rates. Sudden cardiac       death is the major cause of death in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy. While implantable       cardioverter defibrillator and treatment with amiodarone have been recommended and performed       empirically for the secondary prevention in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy, no       consistent scientific evidence exists on the role of these therapeutic strategies for the       primary prevention of Sudden cardiac death in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy and high       mortality risk.        The main hypothesis of this study is that implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation       is more efficient in the primary prevention of death in Chagas cardiomyopathy than drug       therapy with amiodarone in patients with documented non-sustained ventricular tachycardia.        We should point out that the death risk will be assessed using the Rassi risk score for death       prediction validated based on non-invasive variables and, depending on the results of this       study, it may guide the indication of implantable cardioverter defibrillator in Chagas       cardiomyopathy.
nan
nan
Background： Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a major cause of substantial mortality and morbidity       from thromboembolism, heart failure (HF), and cognitive dysfunction. With the aging of the       population and improved survival after myocardial infarction and HF, AF is emerging as a       major public health concern.        Recently, significant progress has been made in treatment of AF with catheter ablation,       emerging as an increasingly important technique. According to the current guidelines,       catheter ablation can be considered as the first-line treatment of choice for patients with       drug refractory paroxysmal AF (PAF). Circumferential PV isolation (CPVI) is a widely accepted       cornerstone of this procedure, but limited by an unacceptable recurrence rate, mainly due to       recovery of pulmonary vein (PV) conduction.        Durable, continuous, transmural isolation of PV is one of the most important goals of       radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) for PAF. The contact force (CF) between the ablation       catheter and target tissue was considered closely related to the ablation effectiveness.       Appropriate CF should be able to generate enough tissue lesions, and avoid the complications,       such as cardiac perforation, atrial-esophageal fistula. Nowadays, irrigated ablation       catheters are widely used, but the CF is mostly dependent on operators' experience and       feeling, unable to be precisely measured. The tissue lesion produced would be variable in       different operators, and the learning curve would be time consuming.        The newly approved CF catheter enables measurement of catheter tip contact force and force       vector, providing the real-time CF during ablation. It would be helpful, not only for       effective lesions formation, but also for the prevention from complications.        Studies from Western-population indicated that higher long-term successful rate could be       achieved by using CF catheter, and CF between 10 to 20g was adopted in most centers. It would       be important to find the appropriate range of CF for Chinese populations, because of various       factors including for instance thinner and smaller atrial chambers among Chinese.        Objectives Phase I: To validate or otherwise determine the Chinese-specific appropriate CF       during PVI in PAF.        Phase II: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of ablation guided by the appropriate CF       Trial design and Treatment of Subjects Phase I Instrument: CARTO™, Biosense Webster,       Electrophysiology（EP）recording system, Thermocool® SmartTouch™ Catheter，Lasso/Navi-Lasso       catheter, etc.        NO. of cases: 20 Study duration: 2 months Strategy：Circumferential pulmonary vein isolation       Procedure： Local anaesthesia, Sedation Catheters are advanced through the right/left femoral       vein. After double transseptal punctures, 8F or 8.5F SL1 Swartz sheath and Steerable sheath       (e.g. Agilis, St Jude) will be placed in left atrium (LA), followed by PVs' venography       Establishment of the anatomical model of LA and all PVs: Respiratory gating, Point-by-Point       or Fast Anatomical Mapping (FAM). When using Point-by-Point, CF would be controlled between 5       to 10g. When using FAM, the model around PVs would be adjusted by SmartTouch catheter with CF       5-10g.        Parameter setting: Power-anterior wall 35W, posterior wall 30W; Irrigated flow rate =       17-30ml/min；Impendence - up to 170Ω； Operator: Dr. Chenyang Jiang Ablation catheter could be       moved if, electrical activity amplitude decrease >80%, impedance decrease >10Ω, or ablation       time more than 20s.        Endpoint: Bi-directional block between left atrial and pulmonary vein (LA-PV), and no capture       along CPVI line.        The operator will be blinded to CF data, which would be monitored by the assistant. When the       CF is higher than 40g, the operator will be warned.        Parameters: total procedure time, model reconstruction time, power, ablation time, impedance,       CF, force-time integral (FTI).        Introduction for PV ablation:        Perform circumferential PV ablation in the order.          1. When PV is isolated after circular linear ablation without touch-up ablation, 30min            waiting time + isoproterenol（ISP）/adenosine triphosphate（ATP） induction would be            performed to detect the acute reconnection. If there's no reconnection, each segment            will be identified as "isolated segment", and the ablation CF, time, FTI, and the power            of each segment will be recorded.          2. When PV isolated initially, but reconnected by 30min+ISP/ATP observation, re-isolation            would be performed, and the segment with conduction gaps(GAP) will be identified as            "acute reconnected segment(s)".          3. If PV isolation not achieved by initial circumferential ablation, additional ablation            along the circular lesion will be performed until PV isolated, and the segment(s)            re-ablated will be identified as "unisolated segment(s)", record the parameters.            30min+ISP/ATP detection will be performed after isolation, "isolated segment(s)" and            "acute reconnected segment(s)" will be identified, as described above in a. and b. If            the "acute reconnected segment(s)" is the same segment(s) as "unisolated segment(s)",            classify to the latter group.        Analysis for appropriate CF For each segment, single variable and multiple regression       analysis will be performed between the three groups ("isolated segment"," acute reconnected       segment ", and "unisolated segment"), to define an "appropriate CF". The sensitivity and       specificity of the "appropriate CF" will be analyzed.        Phase II:        Instrument: CARTO™, Biosense Webster, EP recording system, Thermocool® SmartTouch™       Catheter，Lasso/Navi-Lasso catheter, etc.        NO. of cases: 120 Study duration: enrollment - 12 months, follow-up - 12 months, Data       analysis and papers preparation - 3 months.        Strategy：Circumferential pulmonary vein isolation Patients will be randomized with 1:1 ratio       into one of the two following groups: "CF guided group" and "usual ablation group".        Procedure： The preparation, including anaesthesia, sedation, vascular access, transseptal       puncture, is the same as described in phase I.        CF guided group:        After the establishment of the anatomical model of LA and all PVs (the same as phase I),       ablation will be performed with the guidance of real-time CF, ablation time, FTI, etc. CF       will be controlled in the range of "appropriate CF", which has been defined in phase I.       Circumferential PV ablation will be performed orderly, "isolated segment"," acute reconnected       segment ", and "unisolated segment" will be also identified as described in phase I.        Endpoint: bi-directional block between LA-PV, and no capture along CPVI line. Parameters       recording: total procedure time, model reconstruction time, power, ablation time, impedance,       CF, FTI.        Usual ablation group:        Operator will be blinded to CF data, the procedure performance is the same as described in       phase I.        Follow-up Warfarin or new oral anticoagulants will be administered to all patients for at       least 3months after the procedure. The international normalized ratio will be controlled       between 2.0 and 3.0 if warfarin prescribed.        After discharge, patients will be followed up at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12months post ablation.       Patients' experiences, 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) and Holter monitoring (non-required       at 1, 9 months) will be recorded to evaluate recurrence at each appointment (not including 1       and 3 month visit post procedure) and any visits when the patient experience symptoms that       suggestive of arrhythmia. The first 3 months is considered as a blanking period.        Recurrence is defined as AF/flutter/tachycardia, lasting longer than 30s, that documented by       an ECG or Holter recording, or highly suggestive symptoms, after 3 months post-procedure.        Primary end point: Freedom from AF recurrence on the ECGs and Holter monitoring at each visit       during the period from 3 months to 1 years after procedure, independent of antiarrhythmic       drug(AAD) therapy.        Secondary end points: (1) Freedom from AF recurrence, dependent of AAD therapy; (2)Freedom of       arrhythmia-related symptoms; (3)Safety Outcomes, contain mortality (death overall and       procedure-related), vascular access complications (bleeding, hematoma, pseudoaneurysm,       arteriovenous fistula), periprocedural events (stroke, transient ischemic attack, cardiac       tamponade, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, other embolism, LA-esophageal fistula,       Other fistula, pericardial effusion, PV stenosis, atrioventricular block, heart failure       exacerbation, need for a pacemaker, phrenic nerve injury, acute coronary artery occlusion,       valve injury).        Follow-up will terminate after a maximum follow-up period of 12 months. Data Management       Requirements for investigators on data entry The investigator ensures that data are entered       into the medical records and the Case Report Forms (CRFs) truthfully, precisely, completely,       timely and legally.        Information on all patients who signed the Informed Consent Form and enter the trial when       considered eligible through screening should be closely observed and recorded in the CRFs       without any field left blank or missing.        All data on the CRFs should be checked against the source records for consistency.        As source documents, the CRFs should be revised only by drawing a single line with the       investigator's signature and date of revision added.        Source laboratory test reports (or their copies) should be adhered to the field for adhering       laboratory test reports in the medical records.        Data that are significantly high or low or outside the clinically acceptable range should be       carefully verified and reviewed, and necessary explanations should be given by the       investigator.        Requirements for monitors on data monitoring The monitors should pay regular visits to the       sites to examine the status of signing of informed consent, screening and enrollment.        Ensure that all the CRFs are correctly filled out and are consistent with the source data.        Ensure that all the errors or missing data have been corrected or explained, and have been       signed and dated by the investigator.        Changes in treatment, concomitant medications, intercurrent conditions and ECG recording       should be confirmed and recorded for each subject.        Discontinuations and loss-to-follow-ups of each subject should be indicated in the CRFs.        Confirm that all the adverse events (AEs) have been filed. Establishment of database and data       entry Establishment of database：A study-specific database system will be established as per       the items on the CRF.        Data entry: Data will be entered concurrently by data managers through double entry.        Data review: Each data item should be verified and the discrepancies be reported. The source       forms should be verified on an item-by-item basis and the errors be corrected.        In case of any doubt during data entry, the data manager may fill out a Data Query Form which       will be returned to the monitor. When the investigator has resolved in writing the queries in       the query form and signed, the form will be sent back to the data managers. Data Query Forms       should be appropriately stored.Selection and withdrawal of subjects        Statistical analysis Phase I For each segment, single variable and multiple regression       analysis will be performed between the three groups ("isolated segment"," acute reconnected       segment ", and "unisolated segment"), to define an "appropriate CF". The sensitivity and       specificity of the "appropriate CF" will be analyzed.        Phase II Log-rank test will be used for inter-group comparison of recurrence. Kaplan-Meier       method will be used for the estimation of currency curves for all points. When considering       the central effects and the important prognostic factors, Cox proportional risk model will be       used to estimate the risks compared with blank with the confidence intervals.        More data for "initially-isolated segment", "initially- nonisolated segment", and       "additionally-isolated segment" will be collected, and the "appropriated CF" will be       re-analyzed.
Trial Objectives: To assess the safety and feasibility of Transcatheter Aortic Valve       Replacement (TAVR) with commercially available bioprostheses in patients with severe,       symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) who are low-risk (STS score ≤3%) for surgical aortic valve       replacement (SAVR).        Methodology: This is a multicenter, prospective trial of TAVR in low-risk patients at up to       twelve sites in the United States. The trial will have three arms. The first will comprise       200 patients undergoing transfemoral TAVR. The second arm will comprise200 closely matched       historical controls who underwent isolated bioprosthetic SAVR.        Historical controls will be selected from among patients at the same site who have undergone       isolated bioprosthetic SAVR within the previous 36 months. TAVR patients will then be matched       to SAVR patients using STS database variables to perform propensity matching, including (but       not limited to) age, gender, race, ethnicity, STS score, and valve prosthesis size. Once the       historical matched controls are identified, detailed chart review will abstract in-hospital       and 30-day outcomes for the SAVR cohort.        The third arm of the trial will comprise a registry of TAVR in up to 100 low-risk patients       with bicuspid aortic valve. The results from the registry arm will be analyzed independently.        Primary Efficacy Endpoint: All-cause mortality at 30 days following transfemoral TAVR vs.       bioprosthetic SAVR.        Primary Safety Endpoint: Defined as the composite of major adverse events at 30 days:        a. all-cause mortality c. spontaneous myocardial infarction (MI) d. reintervention: defined       as any cardiac surgery or percutaneous reintervention that repairs, alters, or replaces a       previously implanted aortic valve e. VARC life-threatening bleeding f. Increase in serum       creatinine to ≥300% (>3x increase compared to baseline) OR serum creatinine ≥4.0 mg/dL with       an acute increase ≥0.5 mg/dL OR new requirement for dialysis g. coronary artery obstruction       requiring percutaneous or surgical intervention h. VARC major vascular complication i.       cardiac tamponade j. cardiac perforation k. pericarditis l. mediastinitis m. hemolysis n.       infective endocarditis o. moderate or severe aortic insufficiency p. significant aortic       stenosis q. permanent pacemaker implantation r. new-onset atrial fibrillation        Secondary Endpoints (TAVR Cohort):          1. Major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) at 30 days, 6 months, 12            months, and 2, 3, 4 and 5 years, defined as the composite of:               1. all-cause mortality               2. stroke               3. spontaneous MI               4. reintervention          2. The occurrence of the individual components of MACCE at 30 days, 6 months, 12 months,            and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years (including stoke).          3. The composite of major adverse device events post-procedure, and at 6 months, 1 year,            and 2, 3, 4, 5 years          4. VARC major vascular complications, at 30 days and 1 year          5. VARC life-threatening or disabling bleeding, at 30 days and 1 year          6. Technical success upon exit from the operating room or catheterization laboratory,            defined as all of the following:               1. alive               2. successful access, delivery, and retrieval of the device and/or delivery system               3. correct positioning and successful deployment of the valve               4. no need for unplanned or emergency surgery or reintervention related to the device                 or access procedure, including reinstitution of cardiopulmonary bypass post-weaning                 for SAVR patients          7. Device success at 30 days and 1 year, defined as all of the following:               1. absence of procedural mortality               2. correct positioning of a single prosthetic heart valve in the proper anatomical                 location               3. device performing as intended:        1. No migration, erosion, embolization, detachment, fracture, hemolysis requiring       transfusion, thrombosis, or endocarditis 2. Intended performance of the heart valve: no       prosthesis-patient mismatch, mean aortic valve gradient <20 mm Hg OR peak velocity <3 m/s,       AND no moderate or severe bioprosthetic valve regurgitation 8. Procedural success at 30 days,       defined as device success AND no major adverse device events 9. Bioprosthetic valve       regurgitation, defined as either moderate or severe aortic regurgitation OR moderate or       severe paravalvular leak, at hospital discharge, 12 months, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years 10.       Incidence of new-onset atrial fibrillation at hospital discharge, and at 30 days, 12 months,       and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years.        11. Conduction disturbance requiring permanent pacemaker implantation at hospital discharge,       12 months, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 years.        12. Change in NYHA class from baseline to 30 days, baseline to 6 months, baseline to 12       months, and baseline to 2-5 years.        13. Change in distance walked during 6-minute walk test from baseline to 12 months.        14. Change in responses to the short form Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ-12)       from baseline to 12 months.        15. Echocardiographic assessment of the bioprosthetic valve post-procedure, at 12 months, and       at years 2-5, including (but not limited to):        a. aortic valve mean gradient, maximum gradient, and peak velocity b. calculated aortic valve       area c. degree of bioprosthetic valve regurgitation 16. Assessment for subclinical leaflet       thrombosis with multislice computed tomography, or transesophageal echocardiography if GFR       <50 mL/min/m2, at 1 to 2 months.        17. Individual patient level Success all of the following and device success:          1. No re-hospitalizations or re-interventions for the underlying condition (e.g., HF)          2. Return to prior living arrangement (or equivalent)          3. Improvement vs. baseline in symptoms (NYHA Class decrease ≥ 1)          4. Improvement vs. baseline in functional status (6MWT increase ≥ 50 meters)          5. Improvement vs. baseline in QoL (KCCQ increase ≥ 10)        Number of Trial Sites: 12        Sample Size: 200 consecutive patients and 200 historical controls, and an additional 100 (up       to) patients with bicuspid aortic valve        Patient Population: Patients with severe, symptomatic AS who are determined by the Heart Team       to be at low surgical risk (STS score ≤3%).
AIM: To explore if VitalScan MCG parameters are able to predict future ICD therapies in       patients who meet the requirements for ICD therapy.        Magnetocardiography (MCG) Magnetocardiography (MCG) is a non-invasive, non-contact       body-surface method which uses magnetometers to measure and map the magnetic fields generated       by the electrical activity within the heart. It offers a better spatial resolution than an       ECG recording and opens the possibility of detecting conduction characteristics consistent       with arrhythmogenesis.        The application of MCG has been limited by feasibility as devices up to now have been based       on superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUID) with super cooled sensors. These       machines were often operated in a shielded environment, to decrease magnetic field       interference (noise) from electrical devices and other sources of magnetic fields. This was a       major limiting factor in deploying these devices in a working environment especially       considering, that most hospital wards will have numerous devices that can interfere with the       device.        The investigators will be evaluating the use of a portable magnetometer which measures the       change in magnetic fields rather than an absolute magnetic field as measured by SQUID       magnetometers used in the trials mentioned above. It has been developed to be more affordable       and more feasible than SQUID magnetometers as it is designed to be operated at room       temperature in an unshielded environment. The investigators will be evaluating its ability to       measure parameters identified in previous literature as well as other novel parameters that       may be identified from acquiring the MCG derivative. With the development of this portable       magnetometer designed to be used in an unshielded environment, there is real potential for       screening a large numbers of patients for SCD risk. Until this trial, this novel tool has not       been evaluated in this role.        MCG parameters in Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD) Whilst there are limited data on the role of MCG       in predicting arrhythmic events, a series of studies involving patients with ischaemic heart       disease have shown a correlation between MCG characteristics and the presence of ventricular       arrhythmias. Specifically QRS fragmentation and late fields of the QRS have been associated       with a higher incidence of ventricular arrhythmia. A trial of 49 patients with dilated       cardiomyopathy demonstrated parameters present on MCG scans which were able to distinguish       between participants, retrospectively, who had a ventricular arrhythmia in comparison to       those who did not. The authors associated the features in the MCG T wave (specifically       prolongation of the end part of the T wave) with the presence of ventricular arrhythmias.       Kawakami et al prospectively studied ventricular arrhythmia risk in 51 patients with       non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy for a mean follow-up of 2.9 years. They found that MCG left       intraventricular disorganised conduction described as a deviation from the typical global       clockwise LV depolarisation was predictive of major adverse cardiac events..        Proposed trial The aim of this trial is to show a correlation between features consistent       with arrhythmogenic substrate from a VitalScan MCG and future ventricular arrhythmias;       measured from observed arrhythmic events from ICD interrogation of patients at risk of SCD.       The investigators hope therefore to describe MCG features most predictive of future       ventricular arrhythmias.        To achieve this aim the investigators plan to perform a multi-centre cohort trial in all       patients referred to cardiology at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust       and University Hospital of North Midlands. In addition to usual care, participants will have       lying and standing blood pressure measured, blood samples taken for the measurement of       circulating vascular biomarkers and an MCG performed. Participants will then be segregated by       whether their usual treatment pathway involves or has involved the implantation of an ICD.       Those patients who do not require an ICD will not receive any further follow up, but will be       used to form a control group of patients. Participants who have received an ICD will be       observed for any arrhythmic events for a minimum of one year.        At twelve months participants will be requested to complete a quality of life questionnaire;       SF-36 to assess impact of symptoms on their quality of life. Twelve months after the       recruitment of the last patient the first phase of the trial will conclude.        The second phase of the trial involves long term follow up of participants having ICD       implants, for duration of five years. This will be observational and participants will not be       expected to be involved in any activity above and beyond standard care.        Trial Summary The trial is a dual phase, multi-centre observational cohort trial, attempting       to define the parameters of Magnetocardiography (MCG), with an aim to interpret the       characteristics of these parameters, which can predict future ventricular arrhythmia and ICD       therapies.        Phase one will last a total of 30 months: 12 months to recruit patients, further 18 months to       complete patient follow up and for analysis of data.        If the recruitment target is not met at the 12 month time point, there will be an option to       extend this period for a further 6 months.        Phase two will involve long term follow up of the cohort of participants who receive an ICD.       This will allow longer time for events requiring ICD therapy to occur. This will involve an       annual data collection and reporting. This will continue for five years after the recruitment       of the last participant.        Study population:        The investigators plan to recruit 510 prospective participants in total out of which 300 ±10%       in the observation arm (as shown in Figure 1) and 210 participants in the control arm. This       will ensure sample size integrity assuming a possible 10% loss to follow up. Prospective       participants will be recruited from two sites. All trial visit and procedures will be       conducted in the University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) and University Hospital       of North Midlands (UHNM) NHS Trusts.
Enzyme replacement therapy and concomitant treatment:        FD specific treatment (ERT, enzyme replacement therapy) have been available since 2001 and       patients have been treated with either agalsidase alpha (Replagal®) or agalsidase beta       (Fabrazyme®) every other week at recommended doses, 0.2 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively.        Concomitant treatment with cardiovascular medication including       angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitor, angiotensin-II-receptor-blocker, acetylsalicylic       acid, beta-blocker, calcium-channel-blocker, diuretics and statins, was registered for all       patients.        Statistical analysis:        Primarily, we compared the progression of cardiac involvement from baseline to follow-up,       according to ERT including subgroup analysis according to gender.        Secondarily, subgroup analysis of the ERT group was performed by separating patients with-       and without cardiac disease at baseline, indicated by the presence of myocardial hypertrophy       on transthoracic echocardiography (septal thickness or LV posterior wall thickness >0.9 cm       for females and >1.0 for males), increased cardiac mass (Left ventricular mass index (LVMi)       >95 g/m2 for females and >115g/m2 for males) or systolic dysfunction (ejection fraction <55%)       in accordance with the guidelines from the American Society of Echocardiography and the       European Association of Echocardiography (Lang et al., 2005).        In these analyses ERT patients' baseline was defined as the last available examination prior       to ERT start and follow-up as the last available examination during ERT. Inclusion in the       non-ERT group required that patient had not received ERT at study end. Intra-group       comparisons of progression from baseline to follow-up were made by McNemar test (categorical       variables) and Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test (continuous variables).        Thirdly, for comparisons between treatment groups, linear mixed models were applied on all       available data from continuous variables regarding Sokolow-Lyon voltage-, Cornell product ECG       criteria and LVMi as no violations of the assumptions for linear mixed model testing were       found in initial analyses. The modelling allows for individual difference at a general level       (tracking) as well as individual differences in the progression over time, controlled for       gender, age at baseline, treatment duration and current ERT status.        Comparisons of major organ involvement at baseline, gene mutations and alfa-galactosidase A       activity between treatment groups, were performed by Chi-squared and Mann-Whitney U tests,       respectively.        Data from categorical variables are presented as frequency (percentage), and continuous       variables are presented as median [range] or estimate (±standard error). Data was analysed       using SPSS (version 19.0). All tests were two-sided and a p-value <0.05 was considered       statistically significant.
nan
nan
nan
The goal of the proposed research is to validate PPG and TO signal waveforms recorded from a       wist-based sensor device, which is worn on one or both arms, during catheter ablation, device       interrogation, and defibrillation threshold testing (DFT). It is a non-invasive procedure       that will include placing a wrist-based sensor on subjects who consent participate. Data       collected from routine clinical care devices used during these procedures (catheter       ablations, device interrogations, and DFTs) will confirm data collected from the iBeat       wristwatch.
nan
Faecal incontinence is a devastating condition affecting daily living and has major       influences on quality of life. Faecal incontinence affects 2,2 to 5 % of the adult       population. The magnitude of the problem is probably underestimated, because most patients       don't discuss this affliction with their general practitioner. A new treatment, SNS has over       the last decade given new hope to these patients. But a group of these patients has minor       effect of the treatment - despite a satisfactory test-stimulation period. This study aims to       identify optimal stimulation parameters that will improve patient continence and quality of       life. Four different stimulation parameters will be tested through a double blind, randomized       crossover study - standard stimulation parameters (frequency: 14 Hz, pulse width 210       microsec.) will serve as control stimulation.        The study includes five arms that will be tested in a randomized order. Each arm will be       tested for four weeks in which the patient fill in bowel habit diaries and standardized       questionnaires. The first week in each period will not be evaluated - is serves as a wash-out       period.        Before any pacemaker changes anorectal manometry and rectal filling tests will be performed.
From September 2017, 20 selective patients, and then 120 consecutive patients with valvular       atrial fibrillation were treated with our new operation. If the clinical results from the       first 20 patients with restrict selection criteria are unsatisfied, that is, the restoration       rate of the sinus rhythm was less than 50% at 1-year follow up, the study will be stopped.       Otherwise, another single arm with 120 consecutive patients with valvular AF will be       recruited for next phase.        Procedure details: All patients will have their left atrial geometric volume reduced,       pulmonary vein island isolated and left appendage ligated or suture closed. After the       superior vena cava was transected, two circular incisions were usually made in the left       atrial wall between the pulmonary veins and the mitral annulus for circumferential atrial       strip resection and pulmonary vein island isolation. The first circular incision was       performed around the pulmonary veins. With this incision, pulmonary vein island was isolated       and the left atrium was opened. The second one was performed in the interatrial groove and       extended around the mitral annulus, leaving a 2 cm inferior wall margin from the annulus and       the appendage in situ. With those two incisions, a circumferential strip of the left atrium       was excised. Then the base of the left atrial appendage was ligated or excised and sutured.       After the mitral manipulations, the center of the pulmonary vein island was longitudinally       reef-imbricated with a 3-0 polypropylene continuous running suture to exclude toward the       outside of the left atrial cavity. This plicated pulmonary vein island was directly       anastomosed to the resected margin around the mitral annulus and the intraatrial septum       instead of the interatrial groove. Finally, caval continuity was restored after aortic       cross-clamp removal using a running 4-0 polypropylene suture.        Telephone contact was maintained with the patients after discharge.The use of antiarrhythmic       medications will be allowed during the first 3 months(blanking period). Transthoracic       2-dimensional echocardiography and Holter monitoring will be obtained at baseline and at 3,       6, and 12 months after the initial operation. Whenever the participants have symptoms such as       palpitation, dizziness, or shortness of breath, they could telephone the doctors.        The primary efficacy endpoint is freedom from AF at both 6 months and 12 months after       surgery, assessed by 7-days continuous Holter monitoring. The primary safety are       cardiopulmonary bypass time; and a composite of death, stroke, serious cardiac events (heart       failure, myocardial infarction), cardiac re-hospitalizations, transient ischemic attack,       pulmonary embolism, peripheral embolism, coronary artery injury, anatomical excessive       bleeding, deep sternal wound infection/mediastinitis, damage to specialized conduction system       requiring permanent pacemaker, and superior vena cava stenosis, within 30 days after the       procedure or hospital discharge (whichever was later) The secondary efficacy endpoint are the       left atrial linear dimensions and A wave reappearance measured by transthoracic       echocardiography at 3 time points (before surgery, 6 and 12 months after surgery). The       secondary safety endpoint are Major adverse cardiac events, which were defined as a       non-weighted composite score of: death, stroke, worsening heart failure (+1 NYHA Class),       hospitalization for heart failure, and mitral valve re-intervention within 12 months after       surgery; and incidence of protocol-defined serious adverse events (especially thromboembolic       and hemorrhagic events) within 12 months after surgery. Statistical analysis were performed       with statistic package for social science( SPSS) 11.5 software. A value of P < 0.05 was       considered statistically significant.
This is a prospective observational cohort study including patients undergoing TAVR procedure       in Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University, School of Medicine. HUAWEI Watch will       be assigned to patients within 24 hours before TAVR. HUAWEI Watch GT series can continuously       monitor and record multiple biometric parameters heart rate, step counts, sleep cycles and       can detect and record the pulse oxygen saturation, as well as analyze QRS complexes and P       waves after triggering. The patients will be followed in outpatient clinic visits at 1, 6,       12, 24, and 36 months after TAVR and will commence monitoring with the HUAWEI Watch protocol       at least 1 day before the scheduled TAVR procedure to allow familiarity with the device.       Patients will be required to activate SMART watch readings (including pulse oxygen saturation       and ECG) at least once prior to TAVR and twice per day in the week following TAVR discharge       (morning and late afternoon/early evening), at least two days a week for the subsequent month       after TAVR discharge and at least once weekly for the remainder of the study. Patients will       also be required to activate SMART watch readings at times of any cardiovascular symptoms       including dyspnea, chest pain, palpitations, dizziness or presyncope. The health data       recorded by HUAWEI Watch will be transmitted to HUAWEI phone application. The Heart Health       App (developed by Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University) will       receive, process and store the data, and transfer it to remote database after approval by       patients. A designated heart team member would access the data via a cloud database, contact       the patient further investigation or management was deemed necessary.
Patients with permanent or persistent atrial fibrillation require rate control medication to       prevent heart rate (HR) speed up. Beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers are used to       achieve a reasonable HR; symptoms, EKG and Holter recordings guide clinicians to rate control       targets at clinical encounters (at our pacemaker clinic at 6 to 12 months intervals). Once a       target HR is achieved, unless new symptoms arise, medication is seldom modified. Rate control       medications need to be well adjusted: if not enough dose administered, HR will increase,       leading to palpitations, shortness of breath and eventually heart failure; if too much       medication is given, patients would experience low cardiac output symptoms (fatigue,       tiredness, shortness of breath, low blood pressure, and eventually syncope). Clinicians tend       to over control heart rates with no added benefits.        Most of patients with a pacemaker or defibrillator at our center are offered a remote       monitoring system as part of a regular follow up schema at our pacemaker clinic; usually to       reduce in face encounters, and to be alerted if a problem arises with the pacemaker or       defibrillator. There are many remote monitoring systems (five, one for each vendor implanted       at our center), and the Home Monitoring® (HM) from Biotronik is specially friendly as all       information from the device (pacemaker or defibrillator) is transmitted every day to our       clinic with no interaction from the patient side. Beside device status itself (remaining       battery, system integrity) daily mean heart rates (measured in beats per minute: bpm) and       patient activity (measured as hours per day in activity, as detected by the movement or       activity sensor implanted in the device) are also transmitted, but if HR are between safety       boundaries (programmed for each patient after implant), all information is rarely used for       any other purpose.        If patients with permanent or persistent atrial fibrillation, rate control stable medication,       and a HM pacemaker, are followed closely (every week) to adjust the medication (every week if       needed, by the research team at the beginning) based on mean heart rates and daily activities       already received, we hypothesize that patients will achieve not only better rate control       targets, but they will increase their hours of activity per day. Eventually once the patient       has understood the principle, medication adjustment would be done by the patient itself based       on the same simple information redirected to him or her.
Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established and valuable treatment       option for patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis and at high surgical risk for       aortic valve replacement. The use of TAVI is rapidly expanding worldwide and its indications       are widening into intermediate and lower risk populations. However, device comparisons by use       of randomized trials are scarce in particular for newer generation transcatheter valves.        The Symetis ACURATE neo™, a self-expanding transcatheter valve delivered via transfemoral       access, is a second-generation device that gained CE mark approval in June 2014.        The SCOPE-II trial will compare the safety and performance of the Symetis ACURATE neo™ with       the self-expanding Medtronic Evolut R system, a widely used and well-established       transcatheter heart valve, which obtained CE mark in 8NOV2006 and HAS approval on 13JAN2015.
Japanese Lead Extraction (J-LEX) Registry is a nationwide, multicenter, observational       registry, performed by Japanese Heart Rhythm Society, collaborated with National Cerebral and       Cardiovascular Center. This study is a voluntary nationwide registry and data are collected       prospectively using a Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) system until 30 days after       the lead extraction. The investigators will collect the data regarding patient's background       and lead characteristic, medical history, details about lead extraction procedure, lead       characteristics, and outcomes. The data were anonymized in a linkable manner at each study       site before they were sent. Based on the provided information, the annual incidence and       predictive factors for outcome will be investigated by the event assessment committee.
A global CMR registry can be a crucial infrastructure of our CMR community that has many       benefits. First, it is the largest collective body of evidence reflecting the current       clinical applications in patient care, which healthcare payers and governing bodies alike can       depend on when metrics such as testing appropriateness, common indications, and diagnostic       effectiveness are needed. Second, it reflects any change in patient impact from CMR over time       as technical developments evolve. Third, it allows an assessment for improvement of       diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation, risk stratification, and cost-effectiveness analysis       relevant to patient management.        Some practical questions that a global CMR registry may be able ot address include:          1. Variations in CMR protocols within specific clinical indications          2. Variations in CMR post-processing, analysis, and reporting          3. Practice adherence to appropriateness criteria and guidelines          4. Clinical effectiveness of CMR over a long period of clinical application and/or            technological advance          5. Differences in CMR utility across centers, regions, or countries        The data collection process will be a collective effort on part of specialized health       professionals across various CMR sites worldwide. All of the data will be extracted from       existing registries and databases. Health professionals in the U.S. and abroad will first       upload patient data and images onto the registry/database that they currently use. Then if       they choose to, they can transmit relevant patient de-identified data onto the global       registry using a user-friendly web interface. CMR sites without a database will be invited to       use CMR Cooperative or REDCAP. De-identified data (usually submitted in excel or CSV format)       will be harmonized and uploaded to the registry website (www.gcmr-scmr.org), which is a       firewall and password-protected database that resides at an IT vendor (Center for Systems       Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital) in Boston, Massachusetts. The pooled data will be       used for retrospective analysis/research approved by the GCMR steering committee and SCMR.
The TAVI program in our center started on November 2007. As part of the national policy for       quality assurance in medicine a detailed clinical characterization of the TAVI-population was       required. Furthermore, a detailed description of the procedure and peri-procedural       complications until discharge was required. In our center we designed and are routinely using       a TAVI database which fulfills the authority requirements as well as has additional data       needed for planning and documentation of TAVI procedure. Since there is already a       considerable number of TAVI patients in this database we aim to perform statistical analyses       answering different question in this filed.
Trial Participants:        Enrolment for the study is planned to start February 2022 and continue until 266 patients       have been enrolled.        Course of action:        Patients undergoing elective surgical aortic valve replacement with bioprosthesis at the       Department of Cardiac Surgery at Odense University Hospital will be offered participation in       the study.        Potentially eligible patients will be screened according to inclusion/exclusion criteria at       the time after eligibility of surgery. This is assessed at a multidisciplinary team (MDT)       conference (with attendance of cardiologist, cardiac surgeons and anaesthesiologist) based on       clinical evaluation, echocardiographic ultrasound, coronary angiography and lung function       test.        Patients eligible to participate in the study will be presented with the information of the       study at the time of their out-patient appointment, according to normal routine at Odense       University Hospital. At this appointment the patient receives a physical examination and       journal record is obtained by a cardiac surgeon (approximately 7 to 14 days prior to planned       surgery).        The study-information will be given by one of the participating doctors, while the patient       has been informed of the possibility of bringing an assessor of their choice. The information       will be delivered in a quiet room blocked to other appointments in the Department of       Cardiothoracic Surgery.        During this meeting the patient will be informed of the purpose of this study and the written       patient information will be submitted in detail. Patients will be given as much time as       wanted after the oral information has been delivered to decide if they wish to participate in       the study. Patients will be offered the possibility to call one of the doctors taking part in       this study during this time, in case of additional questions. Subjects can leave the study at       any time for any reason if they wish to do so, without any consequences.        Signed informed consent will be provided prior to any research procedures. A subject is       registered when signed informed consent has been provided and assigned a subject       identification code by the computer-generated code. A subject is randomized when a treatment       and a randomisation number has been provided. A subject is considered enrolled in the study       once the subject is randomized.        Patient data from EHR will be conducted according to study endpoints after signed informed       consent is provided. Signed consent gives sponsor and sponsors representatives        Randomization:        Allocation to a numbered treatment pack (Atorvastatin or placebo - blinded) Randomization       scheme will be set-up by OPEN data manager with control for beta-blockers and age, and then       randomization per se will be executed with the use of REDCap.        The following will be recorded at the day of randomization:          -  Conduct information for baseline characteristics          -  Transthoracic Echocardiography measurements        Collect baseline blood sample:        • Troponin, CK-MB, Creatinine, CRP        Commence study medication/treatment        Perioperative interventions and outcomes from the day of surgery to the day of discharge:          -  Duration of aortic cross clamp (ACC), extracorporeal circulation (ECC), ventilatory            support, intensive care unit stay period, hospital stay period          -  Continue study medication          -  Blood samples:               -  Preoperative: Troponin, CK-MB, Creatinine, CRP, Plasma-Atorvastatin               -  Serial troponin and CK-MB levels: (6, 24, 48, and 120 hours after surgery).               -  Creatinine levels: 48 and 120 hours after surgery.               -  CRP levels: 48 and 120 hours after surgery          -  Monitor ECG by continuous Holter monitoring to commence as soon as possible after            surgery and continue up to post-operative day 5 evening          -  Transthoracic Echocardiography on post-operative day 5          -  Record fluid intake and output during the first 48 hours following surgery based on IV            fluids administration, blood transfusion (if applicable), oral/nasogastric intake, and            urine plus surgical drain output          -  Record intraoperative defibrillation, removal of external pacemaker, new PPM/ICD,            vasopressors, blood transfusion, surgical re-exploration, renal replacement therapy,            beta-blockers, ACEi/ARB, Amiodarone, Digoxin, Diuretics, Calcium channel blockers,            Potassium supplements, NSAIDs or steroids, non-study statin, use of nephrotoxic            antibiotics, contrast agents or potassium sparing diuretics (Yes/No)        Assessment at/after discharge from hospital:          -  Continue study medications for 30 days after the surgery          -  Phone call on the 30th postoperative day to evaluate symptoms of discomfort compatible            with atrial fibrillation          -  At the end of the study, all excess study medication can be returned at the local            drugstore for safe disposal          -  Patient data from EHR will be conducted according to study endpoints.
Trial Participants:        Enrolment for the study is planned to start February 2022 and continue until 100 patients       have been enrolled.        Course of action:        Patients undergoing elective surgical aortic valve replacement with bioprosthesis at the       Department of Cardiac Surgery at Odense University Hospital will be offered participation in       the study.        Potentially eligible patients will be screened according to inclusion/exclusion criteria at       the time after eligibility of surgery. This is assessed at a multidisciplinary team (MDT)       conference (with attendance of cardiologist, cardiac surgeons and anaesthesiologist) based on       clinical evaluation, echocardiographic ultrasound, coronary angiography and lung function       test.        Patients eligible to participate in the study will be presented with the information of the       study at the time of their out-patient appointment, according to normal routine at Odense       University Hospital. At this appointment the patient receives a physical examination and       journal record is obtained by a cardiac surgeon (approximately 7 to 14 days prior to planned       surgery).        The study-information will be given by one of the participating doctors, while the patient       has been informed of the possibility of bringing an assessor of their choice. The information       will be delivered in a quiet room blocked to other appointments in the Department of       Cardiothoracic Surgery.        During this meeting the patient will be informed of the purpose of this study and the written       patient information will be submitted in detail. Patients will be given as much time as       wanted after the oral information has been delivered to decide if they wish to participate in       the study. Patients will be offered the possibility to call one of the doctors taking part in       this study during this time, in case of additional questions. Subjects can leave the study at       any time for any reason if they wish to do so, without any consequences.        Signed informed consent will be provided prior to any research procedures. A subject is       registered when signed informed consent has been provided and assigned a subject       identification code by the computer-generated code. A subject is randomized when a treatment       and a randomisation number has been provided. A subject is considered enrolled in the study       once the subject is randomized.        Patient data from EHR will be conducted according to study endpoints after signed informed       consent is provided. Signed consent gives sponsor and sponsors representatives        Randomization:        Allocation to a numbered treatment pack (continuance or discontinuance of statin therapy)       Randomization scheme will be set-up by OPEN data manager with control for beta-blockers and       age (60-65, 66-70, 71-80, >80), and then randomization per se will be executed with the use       of REDCap.        The following will be recorded at the day of randomization:          -  Conduct information for baseline characteristics          -  Transthoracic Echocardiography measurements        Collect baseline blood sample:        • Troponin, CK-MB, Creatinine, CRP        Commence intervention        Perioperative interventions and outcomes from the day of surgery to the day of discharge:          -  Duration of aortic cross clamp (ACC), extracorporeal circulation (ECC), ventilatory            support, intensive care unit stay period, hospital stay period          -  Continue intervention          -  Blood samples:               -  Preoperative: Troponin, CK-MB, Creatinine, CRP, Plasma-Atorvastatin               -  Serial troponin and CK-MB levels: (6, 24, 48, and 120 hours after surgery).               -  Creatinine levels: 48 and 120 hours after surgery.               -  CRP levels: 48 and 120 hours after surgery          -  Monitor ECG by continuous Holter monitoring to commence as soon as possible after            surgery and continue up to post-operative day 5 evening          -  Transthoracic Echocardiography on post-operative day 5          -  Record fluid intake and output during the first 48 hours following surgery based on IV            fluids administration, blood transfusion (if applicable), oral/nasogastric intake, and            urine plus surgical drain output          -  Record intraoperative defibrillation, removal of external pacemaker, new PPM/ICD,            vasopressors, blood transfusion, surgical re-exploration, renal replacement therapy,            beta-blockers, ACEi/ARB, Amiodarone, Digoxin, Diuretics, Calcium channel blockers,            Potassium supplements, NSAIDs or steroids, non-study statin, use of nephrotoxic            antibiotics, contrast agents or potassium sparing diuretics (Yes/No)        Assessment at/after discharge from hospital:          -  Continue study medications for 30 days after the surgery          -  Phone call on the 30th postoperative day to evaluate symptoms of discomfort compatible            with atrial fibrillation          -  At the end of the study, all excess study medication can be returned at the local            drugstore for safe disposal          -  Patient data from EHR will be conducted according to study endpoints.
PHASE I:        The primary objective of ACCESS-EU Phase I is to gain information in the European Union       Countries regarding the use of the MitraClip System with respect to health economics and       clinical care.        PHASE II: (HAS BEEN CLOSED BY SPONSOR) The primary objective of ACCESS-EU Phase II is to       gather additional clinical data, specifically Echocardiography Core Laboratory measurements       of MR severity and left ventricular volumes and diameters, and other echocardiographic       measures, on patients undergoing the MitraClip procedure in the European Union Countries,        Clinical data collected from both study phases, is expected to contribute to decision making       with regards to MitraClip therapy selection in patients with MR: (a) by establishing the       value of the MitraClip therapy in the continuum of care; and (b) by providing practical       information that will allow physicians to make therapeutic decisions, assist hospitals to       make purchasing decisions, and assist insurers in making coverage decisions.        Study Design:        ACCESS-Europe is a two-phase prospective, observational, multicenter post-approval study of       the MitraClip System for the treatment of mitral regurgitation (MR) in the European Union       Countries. Patients will be evaluated per standard practice at baseline, discharge, 6-Months       and 12-Months.        Phase I of the study consists of patients who receive the MitraClip system for the treatment       of MR and two concurrent comparator groups of (a) medically managed heart failure patients       with MR and (b) patients who have undergone mitral valve surgery for MR. The two comparator       groups will be followed and evaluated primarily from a health economic perspective.        ACCESS EU Study Phase II will consist of only patients who receive the MitraClip System, with       the objective to collect additional clinical data, specifically Echocardiography Core       Laboratory evaluation of MR severity and other echocardiographic measures.        Enrollment of patients in each study phase is as follows:        ACCESS-EU PHASE I:          -  A minimum of 300 MitraClip Therapy group patients,          -  A minimum of 100 patients in the Mitral Valve Surgery comparator group          -  As many patients as possible in the Medical Therapy comparator group        First Patient Enrollment Projection: Q1, 2009 Last Patient Enrollment Projection: Enrollment       in the Mitral Valve Surgery and Medically Therapy groups ceased on December 31, 2010.       Enrollment in the MitraClip group will cease when Phase II of the study is initiated at each       site.        ACCESS-EU PHASE II:        A minimum of 300 MitraClip therapy subjects will be enrolled in Phase II.        First Patient Enrollment Projection: Q2, 2011 Last Patient Enrollment Projection: Enrollment       will cease when the Sponsor has determined that an adequate number of patients have been       enrolled.
AIMS and Objectives A randomised controlled clinical trial        Primary objective        • Improvements in 6-min walking distance        Secondary objectives Determine          1. Symptomatic improvement in quality of life, using the Minnesota Living with Heart            Failure questionnaire          2. Change in NT pro-BNP and echocardiographic parameters of LV function          3. Does MRI Dyssynchrony Index (CMR-TSI) predicts responders.          4. Morbidity and Mortality using CARE-HF definitions          5. Packer combined clinical composite score        Study Design A pilot randomised controlled clinical trial 60 patients. The biventricular       pacemaker with be optimized for both A-V delay and V-V delay.        Subject Selection Source - Patients attending Good Hope Hospital, Sandwell Hospital Centres       involved - 2 Eligible Participants - 60 patients with heart failure and narrow QRS.        Inclusion Criteria Sinus rhythm Symptomatic heart failure - NYHA class III or IV ECG QRS       duration less than 120 milliseconds LV ejection fraction of less than 35% on echocardiography       using Simpsons technique.        Able to give informed consent        Exclusion Criteria Age below 18 Current or planned pregnancy Patient refusal Ventricular       tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation Current or recent (within last 30 days) involvement       in other studies Requires implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) according to NICE       criteria for implantation (England and Wales)        Definition of clinical response:- 20% improvement in 6 minute walk distance or any       improvement from 0        Definition of echocardiographic response:- 15% or greater decrease in left ventricular end       systolic volume        Follow up 6 weeks and 6 monthly thereafter. Interim results at 6 months. Analysis of results,       echocardiograms, MRI and BNP will be blind Walk distance to be measured by unblinded observer       and by pedometer.        Randomisation:        Numbered envelopes will be prepared by sponsor (Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust) and       kept from researchers. After informed consent, the patient will be enrolled and the       technician will draw the result.        This trial was known as the Birmingham biventricular pacing in patients unselected for       dyssynchrony (BIPIDS).
nan
nan
nan
nan
This is a prospective, multi-center clinical study designed to confirm the safety and       effectiveness of St. Jude Medical low voltage pacemakers, high voltage dual chamber       Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators (ICD), and Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy       Defibrillators (CRT-D) with various leads in an MRI environment.        The study will enroll subjects across multiple geographies and sites. Sites in geographies       where MRI labelling is not yet approved may also be included after appropriate IRB/EC and       local regulatory approvals, as applicable, are obtained. A prospective, multi-center study       design is chosen for generalizability of study results.        The clinical study will be conducted in approximately 40 centers worldwide. Approximately 88       subjects total (with a minimum 22 subjects for each of the four device/lead combinations)       will be enrolled in this study.        Enrollment in the study is expected to take approximately 6-8 months. Subjects will be       followed for 1 month following the MRI scan. The total study duration of the study is       expected to be 10 months, depending on the rate of enrollment.
It has been previously reported that 2:1 AVB in neonatal LQTS seems preferentially associated       with HERG mutations . It has also been reported in association with the SCN5A gene. We report       on a neonate with congenital LQTS and congenital complete heart block who experienced       frequent episodes of torades des pointe and ventricular tachycardia, which, over the first 2       days of life, was recalcitrant to traditional therapy of beta-blockers and other       antiarrhythmics. Eventually hypotension necessitated the use of an epinephrine infusion,       which halted the ventricular tachyarrhythmias. A pacemaker was implanted once the infant was       stable and, currently, he is thriving. Genetic analysis revealed a HERG mutation.        For this study, we will need access to the infant's inpatient and outpatient medical records       at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Egleston Children's Hospital and Sibley Heart Center       Cardiology to include his age, date of birth, medical record number, inpatient labs,       inpatient echo reports, outpatient echo reports, inpatient and outpatient EKG's, inpatient       pharmacy records, the results of his genetic analysis, his history and physical, transfer       notes, daily progress notes, consultation reports and operative reports from his admission       beginning 9/30/04.
Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) is a cornerstone ablation strategy used in the management of       paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF), and it is a class IA indication for anti-arrhythmic       drug (AAD) refractory symptomatic PAF. However, the consensus statements are vague about the       utility of AAD management during the 90-day blanking window post-PVI. Moreover, there is no       specific guidance to cryoballoon users on the usage of AADs during the 90-day blanking period       that exists anywhere in the published literature. Simply, these studies have not been       conducted with the cryoballoon procedure.
Multi-center, international, prospective, randomized, interventional, pre-market.        Subjects will be randomized on 1:1 basis to either TAVR with the Medtronic TAVR system or to       SAVR. Patients will be seen at pre and post-procedure, discharge, 30 days, 6 months, 1 year,       18 months, and annually through 10 years.        The expanded use addendum is a multi-center, prospective, non-randomized continued access       trial. All heart team approved subjects will be assigned to TAVR with the Medtronic TAVR       system. Patients will be seen at pre and post-procedure, discharge, 30 days, and annually       through 10 years. Enrollment is expected not to exceed 3660 attempted implants in the United       States.
nan
1. Background information             1.1. Investigational product Ventoline® 0,1 mg/dosis inhalation spray.             The active substance is Salbutamol. Salbutamol is a selective β2-agonist which induces            relaxation of the bronchial smooth muscles. Common side effects experienced in 1-10% of            chronic Ventoline® users are tachycardia, cephalgia and tremors. For more information            about the product go to 12. Appendix 1 - Product summary, which holds the Danish product            resume from The Danish Health and Medicines Authority.             1.2 Background Grown-ups with congenital heart disease represent a constantly growing            cohort (1,2), and with a birth prevalence of 2.62 per 1000 live birth, isolated            ventricular septal defect (VSD) is the most frequent congenital cardiac malformation            (3,4). For these patients short- and long-term follow-up studies have displayed low            complication rates (5-7), and VSD-corrected patients have been assumed to be just as            healthy and physically fit compared as their peers (8). Nevertheless recent studies have            demonstrated significant long-term abnormalities (9-12).             Compared with the normal population similar workloads in ergometer cycle test have been            demonstrated in some studies (13-17) whereas other studies have observed subnormal            working capacity in these VSD patients (18-20). The most recent study, demonstrated            significantly lower cardiopulmonary exercise capacity (9), a lower force frequency            response (10), and abnormal ventilation pattern compared with healthy age and gender            matched controls (11). How the abnormal pulmonary function interrelates with the            impaired cardiac function and the limited exercise capacity remains to be clarified.            None of the referred studies have explained the mechanism for the impaired exercise            capacity. However, chronotropic incompetence (9,14,15,19,21) due to postsynaptic            β-adrenergic desensitization of the cardiac autonomic nervous system after corrective            cardiac surgery (14,15,19,21) have been suggested. Intrinsic sinus node dysfunction in            postoperative congenital heart disease patients has also been demonstrated and may            explains the lower exercise capacity (22,23). Moreover, abnormal pulmonary function has            been demonstrated in these patients, which may be due to a direct mechanical limitation            to breathing caused by the sternotomy the patient underwent earlier in life. However,            there may also be an indirect physiological explanation to the abnormal exercise            ventilation. A previous study found that the pulmonary function was somewhat decreased            in many of the standard parameters, perhaps pointing in the direction of a direct            mechanical restriction, but without any clear results(24). The study lacks a reference            group of healthy controls, using standardized pulmonary values instead. Moreover, the            patient group only consisted of children, not adults, making it difficult to predict the            long-term outcome in this group of patients.             β-adrenoceptors in heart (β1) and lungs (β2) are targets for catecholamine's causing            stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system with among other effects bronchodilation            and positive chronotropic, dromotropic, and ionotropic effects in the heart (25).            Inhaled β2-agonists are commonly used as bronchodilators for patients conditioned with            increased airway resistance (26). It has long been discussed if they have an ergogenic            potential in sport due to both the effects on the lungs and a theoretical effect on the            heart. It is now well described that exercise performance and maximal oxygen uptake            (VO2-max) are not affected in healthy adults (27-29) not even when supratherapeutic            doses of salbutamol are tested (27). However, these studies were mainly performed in            athletes and not on the general population. In patients with chronic cor pulmonale a            moderate chronotropic effect from β2-agonist infusions have been demonstrated (30). The            effect in patients with congenital heart disease such as VSD is unknown. Since the VSD            patients have an impaired pulmonary function as well as an impact on their chronotropic            and ionotropic function, they might benefit from treatment of β2-agonists.          2. Hypotheses             A) Patients with surgically corrected VSD have an increased airway resistance at rest            which is positively affected by inhaled β2-agonists.             B) Patients with surgically corrected VSD have impaired spirometry outcomes which is            positively affected by inhaled β2-agonists.             C) Patients with surgically corrected VSD have an inferior diffusion lung capacity            compared with un-operated VSD-patients and healthy controls.             D) β2-agonists increase peak exercise minute ventilation and thereby the cardiopulmonary            exercise capacity of surgically corrected VSD patients compared to un-operated            VSD-patients and healthy controls.             E) Inhaled β2-agonists increase peak exercise heart rate and thereby the cardiopulmonary            exercise capacity of patients with surgically corrected VSD compared to un-operated            VSD-patients and healthy controls.             F) Patients with surgically corrected VSD have a reduced heart rate variability,            compared with un-operated VSD-patients and healthy controls, that is positively affected            by β2-agonists.          3. Trial design             The intended study will be conducted as a randomized controlled blinded cross over            study, on the two VSD groups, matched with an equivalent number of controls. When            written informed consent is obtained from participants they will be included in the            trial. They will undergo two test days with an interval of at least of 48 hours and            maximal 14 days, to ensure complete physical recovery and comparable physical condition            at the two tests.             It will be randomized whether the participant receives the Ventoline or the placebo at            their first or second test day. To ensure similar test performances, both the            participants and monitoring staff will be blinded in regards to what they are testing.            For further information regarding study population see Chapter "Study Design" and "Arms            and Investigations".          4. Methods             The tests below are described in the order that they are supposed to be conducted. Each            test will be performed on both test days at Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby at The            Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery.             4.1 Bioelectrical impedance analysis (Bioimpedance)             The data collected are Total Body Water (TBW), Extracellular Fluid (ECF), Intracellular            Fluid (ICF), Fat Free Mass (FFM) and Fat Mass (FM).             4.2 Lung Clearance Index             The equipment will analyse LCI 2,5 (LCI is defined as the cumulative expired volume            (CEV) divided by the functional residual capacity (FRC) ), Scond (ventilation            heterogeneity generated in the conductive lung zone) and Sacin (ventilation            heterogeneity generated peripheral to the acinar entrance.             4.3 Plethysmography (Static lung function)             The equipment determine different lung parameters of which we will measure total lung            capacity (TLC, liters), residual volume (RV, liters), functional residual capacity            (FRCpleth, ml) and specific airway resistance (sRAW, kPa/sec) (35).             4.4 Spirometry             The test will include forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), forced vital            capacity (FVC), the ratio between the two volumes (FEV1/FVC) and peak expiratory flow            (PEF).             4.5 Diffusion capacity test             The diffusion capacity test will be performed on the same equipment as the            plethysmography. The test determines lung carbon monoxide diffusion capacity (DLCO) and            alveolar volume (VA) expressed as percentage of expected value.             4.6 Impulse oscillometry             The equipment will then be able to analyse resistance in of the respiratory system at 5            Hz (R5), and at 20 Hz (R20) and the difference between the two measured resistances            (Diff 5-20) (38,39).             4.7 Holter-Monitorisation             ECG activity during and after orthostatic and exercise testing will be monitored with a            2-channel Holter monitor. Participants will be wearing the Holter-Monitors for 48 hours            after activation at the first visit and for 24 hours after activation at the second            visit. This results in 3 data-files:             With the Pathfinder analysis software, we will assess any ECG changes and heart rate            variability (HRV) during and after each exercise test. Endpoints are HRV (beat-to-beat            variation) and mediterranean hour pulse.             4.8 Orthostatic stress test (active standing)             During the test we will measure blood pressure and heart rate with an automated            sphygmomanometer on the left forearm.             4.9 Exercise testing             Exercise capacity will be tested on a Lode Corival ® ergometer cycle. With the Jaeger            MaesterScreen CPX software system, we will monitor pulmonary ventilation and gas            exchange in a breath-by-breath measurement. During test sessions, heart rate, blood            pressure and electrocardiogram, will be measured continuously. The Holter-monitor is            also recording during the exercise test.             Each test day lasts approximately 4-5 hours.          5. Statistics             If suitable, continuous data will be reported as mean ± standard deviation (SD),            otherwise they will be displayed as median value with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).            Comparison of continuous data will be by unpaired Student's t-tests or, for            non-normal-distributed data, the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon rank sum test. All correlations            will be checked with simple regression analyses. Data from all included participants            will be used for the statistical analyse. If correlations are made with the data            material it will be evident on the published material. Data analysis will be performed            with Stata/ IC 12.1 for Mac (StataCorp, Texas, United States of America).             5.1. Power calculation             Our main hypothesis is that β2-agonists increase peak exercise oxygen uptake to the same            level as healthy controls. Previously, the same cohort of VSD patients was exercise            tested in another study and in terms of peak oxygen uptake a statistically and            clinically significant difference was found compared with controls; 38.0 ± 8.2 ml kg-1            min-1 vs. 47.7 ± 6.5 ml kg-1 min-1 9. If we assume a true difference of approximately            75% with the current endpoint, and apply a statistical power of 90 % and a level of            significance of 95 %, we therefore need to include 26 participants in each of the three            group. We aim at including 30 participants in each group and a total study population of            90 participants.             Deviations in the statistics or power calculation will be evident in in published            material.          6. Data storage             Each participant will be given an identification number used for all purposes. A list            over identification codes and complete name, address and telephone number will be saved            and securely stored with the Trial Master File (TMF) and in REDCap. Data will be stored            for 10 years. All digitalised data will be stored on two harddrives - one portable            external harddrive that is kept safe behind two locked doors at the department and one            external server named REDCap with continous back-up. Each identification number will            have a Case Report Form (CRF) that also holds printed trial documents. Physical            documents will be stored behind two locked doors and the CRF will be stored with the            TMF.             A source datasheet for the information noted in the CRF will be stored with the TMF. It            will hold information on the origin of source data concerning, inclusion and exclusion,            randomisation, bioimpedance data, Lung function data, Holter-Recordings and            Holter-Recording analyses data, orthostatic stress test data and Exercise testing data.          7. Ethical concerns        The study is conducted in accordance with the Helsinki declaration and Danish law.        The project will obtain permission from the Danish Protection Agency, the Danish Health and       Medicines Authority, and The Central Denmark Region Committees on Health Research Ethics.       Data will be handled in agreement with the personal data handling law and the participants'       safety is always the number one priority during this trial.        The project will be supervised by the department of Good Clinical Practice (the GCP-Unit).
The trial is a multicenter, prospective and single-arm study. 106 appropriate subjects were       selected from 3 study sites in China in accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria.       The subjects consent to participate in the trial and sign the informed consent. The subjects       who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will receive the intracardiac       electrophysiological examination, during which the subjects will be subject to diagnostic       electrical stimulation by the Qubic Stim Cardiac Stimulator. The subjects will also receive       the clinical follow-up visit after cardiac electrical stimulation until they are discharged       from the hospital. The clinical effectiveness and safety of Qubic Stim Cardiac Stimulator in       Chinese population were proved by observing the data collected in this study.
nan
Despite the outstanding progress made in cardiac care over the last few years, cardiovascular       diseases remain the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in developed countries.        After the initial clinical event, patients are considered to have a chronic disease which       combined with the increasing actual life expectancy patients with CAD are a major source of       expenses due to their life-long treatment and follow-up.        ΒB are prescribed during the initial hospitalisation for MI and in the post-MI phase.       European (European Society of Cardiology, ESC) and American (ACC/AHA) guidelines initially       gave βB therapy a class I recommendation for MI or acute coronary syndrome (ACS) for the       first year of treatment and extended such recommendation without solid data up to 3 years       after MI , . However, there has been no recent clinical trial to evaluate safety and efficacy       of long term ΒB therapy in the contemporary therapeutic era. Taking such lack of evidence in       account and acknowledging that clinical practice has changed, the latest ESC STEMI (2014) and       NSTEMI (2015) Guidelines degraded the recommendation for the use of ΒB in post MI patients       (Class IIa B) during the hospitalization period and they question the validity of its use       after the initial stabilization phase. This was confirmed in the 2017 STEMI Guidelines.        The primary objective of the ABYSS trial is to demonstrate the non-inferiority of the       interruption of ΒB therapy after an uncomplicated MI after six months or more of follow-up       compared to the continuation of βB evaluated by the primary endpoint.        The primary endpoint of the study will be evaluated, with one-year minimum follow-up, and       will be the composite of Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE) measured at the longest       follow-up including:          -  All-cause death          -  Stroke          -  Myocardial infarction Hospitalisation for other cardiovascular (CV) reason.        It is expected that the interruption of βB therapy will not alter the prognosis of patients       and improve safety and quality of life of patients and considerably reduce healthcare direct       or indirect costs.
Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy (CAA) and hypertension related hemorrhage are the main causes of       non traumatic primary intracerebral hemorrhage. In vivo diagnosis of these two cerebral       diseases may be difficult and is based on hematoma location and pattern of cerebral       microbleeds (CMB) distribution. We aimed to evaluate a multimodal approach including brain       MRI, Pet AV-45 Amyloid imaging and neuropsychological assessment to improve etiological       diagnosis of primary intracerebral hemorrhage. 70 patients with acute primary non traumatic       intracerebral hemorrhage will be prospectively included and two groups will be compared:       lobar hemorrhage group and deep hemorrhage group. Brain MRI, Pet AV-45 Cerebral Amyloid       imaging (during the first month) and neuropsychological assessment (Three months later) are       performed. Differences between the two groups are evaluated for AV45 cortical binding, CMB       distribution, White Matter Lesions and cognitive profile.
Multi-center, prospective, single arm        All subjects will be treated with a Medtronic TAVR system. Subject follow-ups will be       conducted at pre and post-procedure, discharge, 30 days, 1 year, and annually through 10       years
This is a randomized study comparing the cross-clamp time (XCT) and cardiopulmonary bypass       time (CPBT) of the EDWARDS INTUITY valve system with any commercially available stented       aortic bioprosthesis, in patients with logistic EuroSCORE 1 ≥ 6 undergoing elective surgical       aortic valve replacement surgery with concomitant coronary bypass grafts.        Additionally, the aim is to gather sufficient data to quantify the effect size of short term       patient benefit outcomes previously identified from literature and finally to explore       additional healthcare resource utilization or health economic endpoints.
This is a randomized study to compare the cross-clamp time (XCT) and cardiopulmonary bypass       time (CPBT) of the EDWARDS INTUITY valve system in a minimally invasive surgical approach       (MIS) with any commercially available aortic bioprosthesis in standard full sternotomy       surgical approach, in patients with logistic EuroScore < 20 undergoing elective isolated       aortic valve replacement (AVR) surgery.        Additionally, the aim is to gather sufficient data to quantify the effect size of short term       patient benefit outcomes previously identified from literature and to explore additional       healthcare resource utilization endpoints.
This objective will be accomplished by a prospective, single arm, historical controlled,       multi-site study involving up to 60 implanted subjects at up to 15 study sites in the United       States. Procedural and 30 day safety and efficacy results from this study will be compared to       appropriate historical control data for the Medtronic CoreValve System. Subjects will be       followed up to 5 years following implantation.
Aortic stenosis (AS), the most common valvular heart disease, occurs when there is a       narrowing of the aortic valve opening. New transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI,       also called transcatheter aortic valve replacement [TAVR]), is a minimally invasive surgical       procedure that is rapidly expanding as the dominant treatment modality for elderly patients       with AS. Approximately 1000 patients will undergo TAVR surgery in Ontario in fiscal year       2018-2019 and that number is expected to increase to ~80% of all valve replacement surgery       within the next 5 years.        Patients that undergo TAVI are at risk of developing cardiac arrhythmias such as heart block       and atrial fibrillation and many are routinely monitored in-hospital for 5-8 days       post-surgery. Currently, this monitoring is done using scarce and expensive hospital       telemetry beds.        This study uses a novel clinical pathway including remote monitoring pre- and post-TAVI using       a new service called mobile Cardiac Arrhythmia Diagnostics Service (m-CARDS™). m-CARDS™       consists of a patient cardiac monitoring device that transmits cardiac data in real time to a       centralized center. Patients wearing the device can remain in the comfort of their own home       while being monitored remotely. The monitoring device is Health Canada approved and has been       used extensively. Because it is highly sensitive to cardiac arrhythmias, including all levels       of heart block, it is ideally suited for this type of monitoring.        If this pathway is adopted across all centres it will significantly reduce the pressure on       hospital resources while at the same time improve the patient experience, enabling them to       get home sooner. Hospital telemetry is very expensive. Reducing the length of stay from 2-8       days on average to 24hr for many patients would represent cost savings to the hospitals and       province.        While some studies show that patients could be discharged earlier, there is still significant       variability in adopting a short length of stay post-TAVI due to a perceived need for       inpatient monitoring and lack of adequate knowledge and data on feasibility of remote       outpatient monitoring.        In addition, the pre-TAVR monitoring will enhance our ability to predict and plan for       interventions such as permanent pacemaker implantation. The primary objective of this project       will be to facilitate the implementation of this monitoring technology into a busy tertiary       care setting and better understand the conditions necessary for successful implementation.       This will be achieved through ongoing stakeholder engagement (patient, provider, and hospital       administrators) at all stages of the implementation program and close evaluation of quality       metrics to ensure fidelity of the m-CARDS™ system.        Overall, implementation of this system is expected to impact the following levels of the       health care system:        i) Patient-Level: Improved quality of life through "better care closer to home" facilitated       by physician supported monitoring before TAVI and post-TAVI discharge from hospital.        ii) Provider-Level/Organizational-Level: Integrate the m-CARDS™ system into a busy TAVI       clinical care pathway that can be adapted at other TAVI centres and ensure       physician/administrator engagement/confidence in this novel technology.        iii) System-Level: Reduced (1) hospital length of stay and associated costs, (2) readmissions       and unplanned medical visits, and (3) likelihood of hospital acquired infections.
nan
This objective will be accomplished by a prospective, single arm, historical controlled,       multi-site study involving a minimum of 150 implanted subjects with no more than 250       implanted subjects at up to 25 study sites in the United States. Procedural and 30 day safety       and efficacy results from this study will be compared to appropriate historical control data       for the Medtronic CoreValve System. Subjects will be followed up to 5 years following       implantation.        The enrollment phase of the study is estimated to take approximately 6-9 months. As each       implanted subject is to be followed up to 5 years, the estimated study duration is       approximately 66-69 months, excluding the time required for preparing the final report.
The EPASS is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, and controlled study.        Prior to entering the study, the patient should be informed and provide a written consent. In       addition, the patient should meet all selection criteria. The Investigator has to check that       all selection criteria are satisfied. Then the patient undergoes pacemaker implantation,       receiving a pacemaker model T70 or Selection 9000 (or later version).        Patients eligible for the study are enrolled and submitted to the evaluation of intra-light       atrial conduction delay before device implantation. Besides, they are assigned to the group       with severe RA conduction delay or with normal conduction delay. The randomization of the       pacing site for both groups depends on the value of right atrial conduction delay, together       with the associated diseases of the patients, sex and age. After implantation, a       stabilization phase of 3-5 weeks is required to stabilize the leads: during this period the       physician can optimize the device parameters. Neither the data regarding AF episodes nor       cardioversion are collected.        At the end of the stabilization phase the patient undergoes the 1st study follow-up and       starts the monitoring period lasting 2 years. Regular follow-ups and data collection are       scheduled every 6 months.
nan
Study design for the panel study with asthmatic children:        Children with asthma will be recruited during DDS outbreaks and will be randomized into three       parallel groups to receive:          1. No intervention for DDS,          2. Intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, and          3. Interventions for both outdoor and indoor exposure reduction.        Disease-related adverse health outcomes will be assessed in all the parallel arms of the       study.        Previous publications of the MEDEA investigators, indicated that 2/3 of each year's DDS       events in the Eastern Mediterranean region appear during February-May, with 10-15% of the       days during this period being "DDS days". Thus, the investigators will perform this panel       study during February-May of 2019 and 2020.        Study population, sample size and location: Children with mild to moderate persistent asthma,       aged 6-11 years, will be recruited from primary schools in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=150) in academic       years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. In order to facilitate recruitment, schools principals will be       contacted individually at the beginning of each academic year and details of the study will       be explained. Relations with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the Schools and Parents       Associations will be established with the aim to facilitate field work. During fall 2018 and       2019, MEDEA investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect eligible children with       asthma for participation in the study in the high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and 2020.       The same number of children will be recruited at the second study site of Heraklion-Crete.        With an average number of 250 students per school, a childhood asthma prevalence of 9-10% and       an estimated response of 60%, in 18-20 primary schools we expect to detect 300 students with       reported asthma. We expect that 50% of the children with reported asthma will meet       eligibility criteria giving us for randomization 150 subjects in Nicosia. We estimate a       dropout rate of 30%, which will eventually give us 105 asthmatic children in total to       analyze.        The feasibility of protocols to assess health outcomes with and without implementation of       exposure reduction guidelines will be tested in a pilot study during the high DDS outbreaks       season of 2018 at both study sites in a small number of patients (6 children with asthma per       study site).        Duration of the study: A feasibility trial and refinement of protocols and tools will be       performed in the high DDS period of 2018 (February-May). In fall 2018 and 2019, with the       onset of academic year, screening survey questionnaires (International Study of Asthma and       Allergies in Children, ISAAC) will be addressed to the parents of all children in 18-20       primary schools in Nicosia by the MEDEA investigators to detect eligible asthmatic children       for participation in the study during the upcoming high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and       2020.        Study Enrollment Procedures: Children with mild to moderate persistent asthma, aged 6-11       years, will be recruited at primary schools in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=150) in academic years       2018-2019 and 2019-2020. In order to facilitate recruitment, schools' principals will be       contacted individually at the beginning of each academic year and details of the study will       be explained. Relations with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the Schools and Parents       Associations will be established with the aim to facilitate field work. With the use of       screening questionnaires (ISAAC questionnaires), parents will, after giving written consent,       report their child's respiratory health information. Then the parents of children with       asthmatic symptoms will be invited to participate in the MEDEA program after they give their       written consent. For children participating in the program, consent to their participation       will be given by their parents/guardians. Parents will be asked by the study investigators to       read the respective consent forms for the survey and the study, and will be given the       opportunity to ask any clarification questions for their child's participation.        Interventions, Administration, and Duration: Following the eligibility assessment, we will       randomize participating schools (and their students with asthma) with a 1:1:1 ratio to three       parallel groups to receive:          1. no intervention for DDS          2. intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, by reducing the time spend outdoors and by            avoiding physical activity          3. interventions for outdoor (as above) and indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home            ventilation and filtering indoor air).        In the indoor intervention arm of the study, exposure reduction measures will be applied in       the asthmatic child's classroom/school and bedroom/household settings.        After randomization, the children, their parents and schoolteachers will be trained in the       tools and procedures to be followed.        Prior to the high DDS season, each eligible child will have at the school:          -  baseline demographic, medical, and symptom survey, and          -  assessments of lung function (Spirometry), fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), and            specific aero-allergen sensitivities.        The study design offers also the opportunity to assess:          -  outdoor exposures to PM,          -  indoor exposures to PM and          -  related health outcomes in three parallel groups during the same DDS events with and            without intervention measures        Handling of Study Interventions:        A bidirectional, patient-centered e-Platform will be created to:          -  Communicate promptly forecast alerts to individuals about upcoming DDS events through            smartphone applications and text messaging          -  Disseminate exposure reduction guidelines        In particular, in the group where there will be intervention for outdoor exposure reduction,       the intervention will be carried out by:          -  Informing the participant and the parent for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.          -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to a smartphone to reduce outdoor exposure            during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors, avoid            competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks).        In the group where there will be interventions for outdoor and indoor exposure reduction, the       intervention will be carried out by:          -  Informing the participant and the parent for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.          -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to a smartphone to reduce:               1. Outdoor exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity                 outdoors, avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks) and               2. Indoor, home and classroom exposure (closed windows and doors, sealing possible                 cracks around windows and doors in order to minimize home ventilation, and using an                 air cleaner in order to filter indoor air).        Adherence Assessment: The compliance to exposure-reduction guidelines will be monitored with       the use of remote sensors. The intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, (by reducing the       time spend outdoors and by avoiding physical activity) will be assessed with the use of smart       wristwatches that will be equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS) and accelerometer.       The intervention for indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home ventilation and by       filtering indoor air) will be assessed with the use of particle samplers that will be placed       outside and inside of houses and school classrooms.        Assessment of adverse events: Since, the intervention under study is behavioral/lifestyle       intervention, it does not involve any specific drug administration nor any change in ongoing       medication regimen. Furthermore, it does not include any invasive procedure and all the       health outcomes are assessed using non-invasive methods (smart-watches, phone interviews) and       questionnaires. Hence, there are no specific safety parameters to quantify adverse health       events related to interventions.        At any point during the study, patients will have the opportunity to bring any information or       issue (e.g. health issue) that concerns them to the attention of the primary investigator,       whose contact information will be given to all participants during the enrollment phase, and       will also be available on the program's website.        Intervention discontinuation:Subjects may withdraw voluntarily from the study at any time and       for any reason.        Parents or guardians of asthmatic children can make oral complaints to members of the       research team as well as to the principal investigators of each site.        The criteria for discontinuation of intervention will be:          -  Non-adherence to the intervention          -  Moving to a different house than the reported initial one          -  Moving to a different school          -  Significant change in health status        Study design for the panel study with the AF patients:        Patients with AF will be recruited during DDS outbreaks and will be randomized into three       parallel groups to receive:          1. No intervention for DDS,          2. Intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, and          3. Interventions for both outdoor and indoor exposure reduction.        Disease-related adverse health outcomes will be assessed in all the parallel arms of the       study.        Previous publications of the MEDEA investigators, indicated that 2/3 of each year's DDS       events in the Eastern Mediterranean region appear during February-May, with 10-15% of the       days during this period being "DDS days". Thus, the investigators will perform this public       health intervention study during February-May of 2019 and 2020.        Study population, sample size and location: Men and women with prior implantation of a dual       lead (atrial and ventricular) pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), will       be recruited from cardiac arrhythmia clinics in General Hospital in Nicosia-Cyprus (n=156) in       project years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. Recruitment of participants will be facilitated       through the network of physicians in Nicosia General Hospital. In order to facilitate       recruitment, relations will be established with the Administrative and Nursing staff of the       Clinics and Patients' Associations and the details of the project will be explained to them.       During fall 2018 and 2019, MEDEA investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect       eligible AF patients for participation in the study in the high DDS periods of February-May       2019 and 2020.        The same number of patients will be recruited in each study site (Beer Sheba, Heraklion,       Nicosia) and the investigators expect that a total of 468 AF patients will be recruited. The       investigators estimate a dropout rate of 30%, which will eventually give 324 AF patients to       analyse. The feasibility of protocols to assess health outcomes in vulnerable patient groups       will be tested in the pilot study during the high DDS outbreaks season of 2018 with and       without implementation of exposure reduction guidelines in all study sites in a small number       of patients (6 AF patients per study site).        Duration of the study: A feasibility trial and refinement of protocols and tools will be       performed in the high DDS period of 2018 (February-May). In the fall of 2018 and 2019, MEDEA       investigators will start recruitment efforts to detect eligible AF patients for participation       in the study during the high DDS periods of February-May 2019 and 2020.        Study Enrolment Procedures: Men and women with prior implantation of a dual lead (atrial and       ventricular) pacemaker or ICD, will be recruited from the cardiac arrhythmia clinic at       Nicosia General Hospital in Cyprus (n=156) in project years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020.       Recruitment of participants will be facilitated through the network of physicians at Nicosia       General Hospital. In order to facilitate recruitment, relations will be established with the       Administrative and Nursing staff of the Clinic and Patients' Association and the details of       the project will be explained to them. Patients will be able to ask questions and ask for       clarification on all aspects of the program. Each patient participating in the program should       complete the necessary consent forms.        Interventions, Administration, and Duration: Following recruitment, the investigators will       randomize participants with a 1:1:1 ratio to three parallel groups to receive:          1. no intervention for DDS          2. intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, by reducing the time spend outdoors and by            avoiding physical activity          3. interventions for outdoor (as above) and indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home            ventilation and filtering indoor air).        In the indoor intervention arm of the study, exposure reduction measures will be applied in       the patient's household/bedroom settings.        After randomization, and prior to the high DDS season, each eligible participant will       complete a questionnaire, providing socio-demographic characteristics, detailed medical and       medication history, and will be trained in the tools and procedures to be followed during the       monitoring sessions while in the community.        The study design offers also the opportunity to assess:          -  outdoor exposures to PM,          -  indoor exposures to PM and          -  related health outcomes in three parallel groups during the same DDS events with and            without intervention measures        Handling of Study Interventions: A bidirectional, patient-centered e-Platform will be created       to:          -  Communicate promptly forecast alerts to individuals about upcoming DDS events through            smartphone applications and text messaging          -  Disseminate exposure reduction guidelines        In particular, in the group where there will be intervention for outdoor exposure reduction,       the intervention will be carried out by:          -  Informing the participant for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.          -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to patient's smartphone to reduce outdoor            exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors,            avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks).        In the group where there will be interventions for outdoor and indoor exposure reduction, the       intervention will be carried out by:          -  Informing the participant for upcoming desert dust storm episodes.          -  Simultaneous transmission of instructions to patient's smartphone to reduce a) outdoor            exposure during the episode (stay indoors, avoid intense physical activity outdoors,            avoid competitive sports, avoid unnecessary walks), and b) indoor, home exposure (closed            windows and doors, sealing possible cracks around windows and doors in order to minimize            home ventilation, and using an air cleaner in order to filter indoor air).        Adherence Assessment: The compliance to exposure-reduction guidelines will be monitored with       the use of remote sensors. The intervention for outdoor exposure reduction, (by reducing the       time spend outdoors and by avoiding physical activity) will be assessed with the use of smart       wristwatches that will have global position system (GPS) and accelerometer. The intervention       for indoor exposure reduction (by minimizing home ventilation and by filtering indoor air)       will be assessed with the use of particle samplers that will be placed outside and inside       houses.        Assessments of adverse events: Since, the intervention under study is behavioral/lifestyle       intervention, it does not involve any specific drug administration nor any change in ongoing       medication schedule. Furthermore, it does not include any invasive procedure and all the       health outcomes are assessed using non-invasive methods (smart-watches, phone interviews) and       questionnaires. Hence, there are no specific safety parameters to quantify adverse health       events related to interventions.        At any point during the study, patients will have the opportunity to bring any evolving       information or issue (e.g. health issue) that concerns them to the attention of the primary       investigator, whose contact information will be given to all participants during the       enrollment phase, and will also be available on the program's website.        Intervention discontinuation: Subjects may withdraw voluntarily from the study at any time       and for any reason.        Patients can make oral complaints to members of the research team as well as to the principal       investigators of each site.        The criteria for intervention discontinuation will be:          -  Non-adherence to the intervention          -  Moving to a different house than the reported initial one          -  Significant change in health status
This is an open-label, non-inferiority, randomized comparison of beta-blocker continuation       versus de-prescription at the 6-8 week follow-up following isolated and uncomplicated CABG at       Royal University Hospital, Saskatoon.        Patients treated with isolated CABG (without valve repair/replacement) and discharged on a       beta-blocker are eligible for recruitment if they have preserved systolic function (EF ≥45%)       and no history of heart failure, atrial fibrillation/flutter, or an alternate compelling       indication for beta-blocker therapy. After obtaining informed consent, eligible patients are       randomly assigned at 6-8 weeks to one of the two treatment groups: continued beta-blocker       therapy per their usual clinical care OR beta-blocker de-prescription as per the study       protocol.        The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate recruitment feasibility for       beta-blocker de-prescription 6-8 weeks following uncomplicated CABG. Exploratory outcomes       include the composite of all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke, arrhythmia, and       cardiovascular-related hospitalization (congestive heart failure, recurrent ischemia,       arrhythmia [supraventricular including atrial fibrillation, and ventricular], syncope or need       for pacemaker) over a 3-year follow up duration.        Other exploratory outcomes will include a change in the patient reported quality of life       using the Short Form (SF) 36 and Euro Qol (EQ) 5D questionnaires and angina score using the       Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ).
Leads are commonly placed in the right ventricular apex. It is not known whether placing       similar leads higher on the septum where there will be less redundancy or pressure on the       septal leaflet will change the extent and severity of tricuspid regurgitation following       pacemaker/ICD implantation. Data has shown that right ventricular pacing can give rise to       right ventricular dysfunction, which in turn may give rise to enlargement of the right       ventricle and cause tricuspid regurgitation.        The study will answer the clinically relevant questions on device lead-related tricuspid       regurgitation.        This study is a single center prospective study at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester. The study will       enroll 200 eligible subjects and follow for 12 months. 50 pacemaker subjects will be       randomized to right ventricular apex pacing 50 pacemaker subjects will be randomized to right       ventricular septum pacing 50 pacemaker subjects will be randomized to left ventricular pacing       via coronary sinus 50 ICD subjects will be enrolled with right ventricular apex pacing.        A baseline heart failure assessment and Two Dimensional echocardiography will be performed       before device implant.        A Two Dimensional echo will be performed 24 hours after device implant. If significance TR is       present a Three Dimensional echo will be performed. At 12 months post implant heart failure       assessment and Two Dimensional echo will be performed.
Technical Success:        Alive, with          -  Successful access, delivery and retrieval of the device delivery system, and          -  Deployment and correct positioning (including repositioning/recapture if needed) of the            single intended device, and          -  No need for additional unplanned or emergency surgery or re-intervention related to the            device or access procedure        Device Success:        Alive and stroke free, with          -  Original intended device in place, and          -  No additional surgical or interventional procedures related to access or the device            since completion of the original procedure (i.e., exit from the cath lab/Operating            Room(OR)), and          -  Intended performance of the device:               -  Structural performance: No migration, embolization, detachment, fracture,                 hemolysis, thrombosis (including reduced leaflet motion) or endocarditis, etc, and               -  Hemodynamic performance: Maintenance of relief of stenosis or insufficiency without                 producing the opposite (Stenosis = Mitral Valve Area (MVA) < 1.5cm2 and Mitral                 Valve (MV) gradient > 5mmHg, Insufficiency = Mitral Regurgitation (MR) >1+), and               -  Absence of para-device complications (e.g., Paravalvular Leak (PVL) > mild, need                 for a Permanent Pacemaker (PPM), erosion, Annular rupture or Aortic Valve (AV)                 Groove disruption, Left Ventricular Outflow Tract (LVOT) gradient increase >                 10mmHg)        Procedural Success:        Device success, and          -  No device or procedure related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) (Life threatening bleed;            major vascular or cardiac structural complications requiring unplanned reintervention or            surgery; stage 2 or 3 Acute Kidney Injury (includes new dialysis); Myocardial Infarction            (MI) or need for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)/coronary artery bypass graft            (CABG); severe heart failure (HF) or hypotension requiring intravenous (IV) inotrope,            ultrafiltration or mechanical circulatory support; prolonged intubation ( > 48 hours)        6.2 Secondary objective(s)        Device Success (at 6 months and 1 year)          -  Subject success 1 year        Device Success:        Alive and stroke free, with          -  Original intended device in place, and          -  No additional surgical or interventional procedures related to access or the device            since completion of the original procedure (i.e., exit from the cath lab/Operating Room            (OR)), and          -  Intended performance of the device:               -  Structural performance: No migration, embolization, detachment, fracture,                 hemolysis, thrombosis (including reduced leaflet motion) or endocarditis, etc, and               -  Hemodynamic performance: Maintenance of relief of stenosis or insufficiency without                 producing the opposite (Stenosis = MVA < 1.5cm2 and MV gradient > 5mmHg,                 Insufficiency = MR >1+), and               -  Absence of para-device complications (e.g., PVL > mild, need for a PPM, erosion,                 Annular rupture or AV Groove disruption, LVOT gradient increase > 10mmHg)
Rationale of the study Uncertainty regarding the potential benefits of transcatheter aortic       valve implantation (TAVI) compared to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in patients       with aortic valve stenosis (AS) requires well-designed studies with long-term data on the       outcome of these patients. A Finnish nationwide registry would allow complementing of the       knowledge gained from randomized trials by providing data on the outcome of a more inclusive       patient population, within a Health Care System that reflects the actual clinical practice in       Scandinavia. In fact, the internal validity attained in randomized trials is often achieved       at the expense of uncertainty about generalizability, especially since the populations       enrolled in such studies may differ in significant ways from those seen in practice.        The choice among different surgical aortic valve prostheses is based on solid data with       20-year follow-up, which have shown significant risk of structural valve deterioration of       bioprosthesis on the second decade after implantation. However, much less is known about the       structural durability of TAVI prostheses beyond 3 years of follow-up. This nationwide       registry would provide data on the durability of surgical bioprostheses as well as second and       third generation TAVI prostheses at 7 years . Continuous follow-up of these patients will       allow monitoring of the durability of these prostheses on the long run.        Furthermore, the introduction of TAVI prompted a rapid development of minimally invasive       surgical techniques and rapid deployment surgical bioprostheses in order to reduce the risk       of early adverse events after SAVR. However, it is unclear whether these advances have a real       clinical benefit on the early and late outcome of patients undergoing SAVR.        Patients and Methods        Patients operated on for AS at each Finnish University Hospitals from January 2008 to       September 2017 will included in to this registry. The following inclusion and exclusion       criteria will be considered:        Inclusion criteria:          -  Patients aged >18 years          -  Primary aortic valve procedure with a bioprosthesis for AS with or without associated            regurgitation.          -  TAVI and SAVR with or without associated coronary revascularization          -  TAVI and SAVR for AS after any prior major cardiac surgery with exception of any maze            procedure and/or closure of the left atrial appendage.        Exclusion criteria:          -  Patients who underwent any prior SAVR or TAVI          -  Patients undergoing concomitant procedures on the mitral valve, tricuspid valve or the            ascending aorta.          -  Patients operated on for aortic valve endocarditis          -  Patients operated for isolated aortic valve regurgitation.        Definition criteria for baseline and operative variables as well as early and late outcomes       will be according to the Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC) 2 guidelines (Kappetein et       al. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2012;42:S45-60). Prosthetic valve structural deterioration and       failure will be reported according to the last specific guidelines on this topic (Capodanno       et al. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2017;52:408-417). However, because of the lack of complete       echocardiographic follow-up in these patients, valve structural valve deterioration will be       classified only according to the definition criteria of severe hemodynamic structural valve       deterioration of these guidelines.        The late events of interest are all-cause mortality, stroke, myocardial infarction,       myocardial revascularization, structural deterioration, non-structural valve dysfunction,       repeated procedures on the aortic valve and implantation of permanent pace-maker. Data on       these late events will be collected at each participating center. These will be further       checked and implemented for patients residing outside the catchment areas by interrogation of       the Finnish National Health Institute for Health and Welfare database as well as Statistics       Finland database.        Planned studies        The following is a tentatile of study projects which will be accomplished from the FinnValve       registry:          1. Late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in intermediate risk patients          2. Late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in low risk patients          3. Late outcome of TAVI and SAVR in high risk patients          4. Futility of TAVI (3-month analysis)          5. Mini- versus full-sternotomy SAVR          6. Perceval sutureless bioprosthesis: 5-year outcome          7. Late outcome of sutureless versus conventional stented bioprosthesis in isolated SAVR          8. Late outcome of sutureless SAVR versus transfemoral TAVI in low- and intermediate risk            patients          9. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in patients with recent acute heart failure         10. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in bicuspid AS         11. Early and late outcome of TAVI versus SAVR in obese patients (BMI >29) at low- and            intermediate risk         12. Early and late outcome of isolated TAVI versus TAVI plus percutaneous coronary            intervention (PCI) in patients with coronary artery disease         13. Early and late outcome of TAVI plus PCI versus SAVR plus coornary artery bypass grafting            (CABG)         14. Prognostic impact of Syntax score on the early and late outcome after TAVI         15. Early and late outcome of TAVI vs. SAVR in patients with prior CABG         16. Early and late outcome of second versus third generation TAVI prostheses         17. Early and late outcome of transfemoral versus transaortic TAVI         18. Early and late outcome of trans-subclavian artery versus trans-aortic TAVI         19. Early and late outcome of sutureless versus conventional stented bioprosthesis in SAVR            plus CABG         20. Early and late outcome of Trifecta versus Perimount bioprosthesis in isolated SAVR         21. Thromboembolic events after TAVI and SAVR         22. Early and late outcome of TAVI in nonagenarians         23. Prognostic impact of permanent pace-maker implantation on the early and late outcome            after TAVI and SAVR         24. Prognostic impact of mild paravalvular leakage on the late outcome after SAVR         25. Impact of preoperative atrial fibrillation on the late outcome of TAVI         26. Impact of preoperative atrial fibrillation on the late outcome of SAVR         27. Early and late outcome of TAVI vs. SAVR in patients aged 85 years or older        Publications of results and PhD studies        The results of these studies will be published in international, peer-reviewed journals in       the fields of cardiology and cardiac surgery. Furthermore, data from this registry will be       available for several doctoral study projects. At this stage, a proposal for PhD studies has       been submitted by:          1. Marko Virtanen, MD (Tampere University Hospital);          2. Pasi Maaranen, MD (Tampere University Hospital)          3. Maina Jalava, MD (Turku University Hospital);          4. Tuomas Ahvenvaara (Oulu University Hospital);          5. Teemu Laakso (Helsinki University Hospital).        Time schedule of data collection, checking and analysis          -  December 2017: start of data collection          -  End of April 2018: deadline for data collection          -  End of May 2018: data checking          -  June 2018-December 2019: analyses and writing of the planned studies.
Cardiac implantable electronic device (CIED) infection is associated with significant       morbidity and expense. The frequency of CIED infection is increasing faster than the       frequency of CIED implants, suggesting more effective prophylactic strategies are needed.        The TYRX Anti-Bacterial Envelope is an FDA-cleared polypropylene mesh that is intended to       securely hold a pacemaker pulse generator or defibrillator (ICD) in order to create a stable       environment when implanted in the body. It contains the antimicrobial agents, rifampin and       minocycline, which have been shown to reduce infection in an in vivo model of bacterial       contamination following surgical implant of the generator or defibrillator.        This is a prospective, observational, multicenter registry of subjects undergoing CIED       replacement with an ICD or CRT and TYRX, with or without lead revision/addition. The registry       subjects will be compared to a published historical control group undergoing CIED replacement       with an ICD or CRT and no TYRX , with or without lead revision/addition. The CRT registry       subjects will also be compared to a case-matched retrospective control group undergoing CIED       replacement with a CRT and no TYRX , with or without lead revision/addition. The primary       study endpoints are major CIED infection and CIED mechanical complication during the 12       months following CIED replacement with an ICD or CRT.        Originally executed as two separate studies (Citadel - ICDs) and (Centurion - CRTs), a       protocol amendment was executed in 2012 due to slow enrollment, combining the databases for       analysis of results.
nan
This study is a prospective, single arm, multi-center, interventional, pre-market trial to       obtain clinical data from Chinese implanting centers to support product registration of the       Medtronic CoreValve™ Evolut™ PRO System (TAV, DCS and LS) with the National Medical Product       Administration (NMPA) in China. Estimating 65 subjects with a maximum of up to 70 subjects in       China with an attempted implant and followed the assessment with pre and post-procedure,       discharge, 30 days(primary endpoint), 6months, 1 year, and annually through 5 years.
The present registry aims to assess the safety and efficacy of TAVI with CE approved devices       at Swiss cardiovascular centers. The Swiss Working group of Interventional Cardiology and       Acute Coronary Syndrome decided to establish a nationwide registry in collaboration with the       Swiss Society of Cardiac Surgery in order to assess the procedural and clinical outcome of       TAVI patients. This prospective registry will help to identify candidates for TAVI, will       report on peri-procedural outcome and on long-term efficacy of the devices. Last but not       least it is a tool to increase quality of treatment of this high-risk patient population.        Methods        This is a prospective multi-center, observational registry performed in Switzerland. All       centers in Switzerland implanting the CE approved devices for TAVI will be invited to       consecutively include patients in the registry. Each center will sign an agreement that all       patients will be included in the registry. Each site will collect baseline and procedural       data as well as clinical outcome data up to 15 years after TAVI.
This is a prospective, multicenter, single arm and controlled clinical investigation compared       to recent historical results. The purpose is to evaluate the safety, performance and efficacy       of the VitaflowTM II Transcatheter Aortic Valve system.        The entire system including valve system, delivery system and introducer system. We will       implant the valve system into subjects and followed up them for 5 years after the procedure.       This clinical trial will be conducted in 15 sites in Europe.
This is an unblinded pilot study of 20 patients randomized to either TH plus standard medical       care or to standard medical care alone. All patients will undergo pulmonary artery (PA)       catheter placement as part of the standard of care for management of cardiogenic shock. Data       from the PA catheter is vital in monitoring real-time hemodynamics, initiating       vasopressors/inotropes, assessing the response to the therapies, and possible need for       escalation of therapy.        For patients randomized to TH, cooling to 32-34°C will then be initiated and maintained for       24 hours using the FDA-approved Intravascular Temperature Management (IVTM™) System with the       9.3 French Quattro® Catheter. The IVTM™ System along with the Quattro® Catheter are currently       FDA-approved for use in cardiac surgery patients to achieve and maintain normothermia during       surgery and in recovery and to induce, maintain, and reverse mild hypothermia in neurosurgery       patients during surgery and in recovery. The IVTM™ System and Quattro® Catheter are not,       however, currently FDA-approved to achieve therapeutic hypothermia in cardiogenic shock       patients. TH is achieved by circulating normal saline in a closed system through the       catheter. The temperature is measured and adjustments are made by the thermal regulation       system to automatically maintain target temperature. The target temperature is achieved       within 2-3 hours of initiation of TH. Rewarming is accomplished using the same balloon       catheter system and heat exchange occurs without infusion of any saline or fluids.        Standard medical therapy for all patients will be based on the current recommendations for       management of cardiogenic shock. This includes inotropic therapy for cardiac support,       vasopressor therapy to achieve target blood pressure, diuretics for volume removal, and       mechanical circulatory support as clinically indicated. Laboratory, echocardiographic, and       hemodynamic parameters will be obtained for patients prior to randomization, after 18-24       hours post-randomization, and after 48-96 hours post-randomization. Core temperature will be       measured via either thermal tip at the end of a transurethral urinary catheter or       endotracheal temperature probe in intubated patients.
Prospective, single centre, cohort study. Patients undergoing CIED surgery in a 3-years       period were considered for participation. In particular, patients were eligible if undergoing       first implantation or replacement or upgrade of pacemaker or implantable       cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), including cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT).        At the time of enrolment, before index procedure, the Shariff score was calculated for every       patient. According to the score, patients were stratified in two groups: low infective risk       (score <3) and high infective risk (score ≥3). Two different protocols of antibiotic       prophylaxis were administered according to risk stratification. Patients in the "low risk"       group were treated with only two doses of antibiotics, both intravenous, of whom the first       one hour before skin incision and the second after eight hours. Patients in the "high risk"       group were treated with intravenous prophylaxis for two full days (of whom the first       administration one hour before skin incision and the others every eight hours), followed by       other seven days of oral prophylaxis, for a total of nine days. Thereby, every patient       received one administration of intravenous antibiotic one hour before skin incision and a       second administration after eight hours, while patients in the low risk group did not receive       other antibiotics and patients in the high risk group continued intravenous antibiotics every       eight hours for two days, followed by oral antibiotics for other seven days.        The intended drug for antibiotic prophylaxis was amoxicillin + clavulanic acid unless the       patient had a history of allergic reactions to penicillin. The dosage was dependent on renal       function: for intravenous amoxicillin + clavulanic acid 2.2 g in patients with creatinine       clearance (CrCl) <30 ml/min and 1.2 g in patients with CrCl >30ml/min, for oral amoxicillin +       clavulanic acid 1 g every 8 hours in patients with <30 ml/min and 1 g every 12 hours in       patients with CrCl >30ml/min. In case of penicillin allergy, clindamycin was chosen. The       intravenous dosage was 600 mg every 8 hours for CrCl <30 ml/min and 600 mg every 12 hours for       CrCl >30 ml/min, while the oral dosage was 450 mg every 8 hours for CrCl <30 ml/min and 450       mg every 12 hours for CrCl >30 ml/min.        Patients who were already in antibiotic therapy at the time of index procedure (for reasons       other than CIED implantation) were not stratified in one of the two groups: post-operative       antibiotics were continued according to clinical indications and not to the study protocol.       This group included patients with a documented or suspected infection before surgery in whom       the CIED procedure was judged not deferrable.
This is an interventional randomized controlled study to investigate the use of fiberoptic       confocal microscopy (FCM) imaging for avoidance of conduction abnormalities during repair of       common congenital heart defects. Study results will be compared to a cohort of similar       surgical patients following standard surgical procedures where FCM was not used. We will       analyze pre-and postoperative ECGs to identify conduction abnormalities.
The aim of the present prospective, multicenter, non-randomized trial is to compare the       device success rate and the in-hospital and 30-day safety and echocardiographic clinical       outcomes between TAVI with and without predilatation in all comers undergoing implantation of       self-expanding valves. Primary endpoint will be device success rate as defined by the VARC-2       criteria. Secondary endpoints involve the composite endpoint of early safety at 30 days,       according to the VARC-2 definitions, specifically all cause mortality, cardiovascular       mortality, stroke, acute kidney injury, life-threatening or disabling bleeding, major       vascular complication, as well as the echocardiographic outcomes and valve performance as       designated by the VARC-2 definitions at 30 days. VARC-1 and VARC-3 device success rates will       be estimated as well.        Study type: Observational        Estimated Enrollment: 75 patients        Allocation: Non - randomized, all comers        Primary Purpose: Treatment        Observational Model: Case-Control        Condition or disease: Aortic valve stenosis        Intervention/Treatment: Device: Boston Scientific ACURATE neoTM transfemoral TAVI system        Time Perspective: Prospective        Participating centers: Hippokration Hospital (Athens, Greece), Silesian Center for Heart       Diseases (Zabrze, Poland), Athens Naval Hospital (Athens, Greece). It is possible that the       number of the participating center may change.        Methods: Patients treated with the Boston Scientific ACURATE NEO/TF system will be       prospectively. All patients will be followed for at least 30 days. A primary study by Pagnesi       et al. estimated the device success rate by ACURATE neo valve at 83% whereas Toutouzas et al.       estimated the device success rate by Medtronic CoreValve/Evolut R/PRO at 76% (6, 17). Taking       83% as our point estimate, the steering committee of DIRECT II considers that ACURATE neo       valve can be regarded as non-inferior to Medtronic CoreValve/Evolut R/PRO if the lower margin       of the confidence interval does not lies under the rate of 83% by more than 5% (i.e. if it is       not lower than 78%). Based on these assumptions, an expected sample size of 65 patients is       required to achieve 80% power to demonstrate the efficacy of ACURATE neo valve, when type I       error rate is set at 0.05. To eliminate possible impact of a small dropout rate, a total of       78 patients were recruited
Robust early and follow-up data on the safety and efficacy of surgical TAVR, last-generation       sutureless surgical valves, and minimally-invasive approaches compared with standard SAVR,       with or without a contemporary (surgical or interventional) treatment of concurrent CAD, are       still lacking for a real-world large population of patients at variable surgical risk. Such       data is urgently required for the correct allocation of therapy in daily surgical practice.       Furthermore, data on quality of life and functional echocardiographic results with different       surgical alternatives might similarly help physicians in decision-making in local "Heart       Teams". Data from a multicentre, real-world, open registry enrolling all patients with       SAVS±CAD consecutively referred to several Centres at different European latitudes should       help to answer some of these open questions.        The main strength of a prospective clinical open registry is the high external validity,       given that data are collected in the settings of standard clinical practice. Moreover, large       sample size enables a better estimation of event rates, and allows the investigation of hard       endpoints and outcomes, by means of a wide population of patients from different institutions       and with extremely limited exclusion criteria.        Importantly, clinical registries may provide data on long-term outcomes occurring after the       study period of a trial. They are more practical than randomized controlled trials, require       fewer resources, and have less stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria for patient       enrolment. Finally, clinical findings from registries have even more significance when       patient-populations derive from different geographic areas, with heterogeneous referral       pathways, baseline clinical characteristics, and perioperative treatment strategies. All       these features substantiate the concept of "a real world practice" underlying any       "registry-study".        Therefore, the rationale of this European multicenter observational open registry is to       prospectively collect data on baseline characteristics, treatment options, perioperative       management and postoperative outcome of all patients consecutively undergoing surgical       treatment of SAVS (regardless of gradients, AVA or AVAi)±CAD or aortic prosthetic       dysfunction±CAD at 16 European university or non-university tertiary hospitals located in six       European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, and United Kingdom).        The primary aim of the study is a 5-year comparison between SAVR and surgical TAVR: we       hypothesize to report a 10% superiority in terms of all-cause mortality in favor of SAVR vs       TAVR. For the purpose of this study, patients will be consecutively enrolled for a 2-year       period, and will be followed-up for a minimum of 5 years after the index surgical treatment.       Maximum follow-up length will be 10 years after surgery.        The following surgical options will be considered:          1. SAVR with mechanical valves          2. SAVR with biological valves (either sutured or sutureless, stented or stentless)          3. Surgical TAVR (either transapical, trans-axillary, or transaortic)        Similarly, the following surgical approaches will be considered:          1. Full sternotomy          2. Mini-thoracotomy (either left-sided for TAVR or right-sided for SAVR)          3. Partial-sternotomy Patient allocation to a specific surgical procedure will be based on            the local Heart Team decision at each Institution, according to standard clinical            practice and current guidelines.        Patients will be recruited in a consecutive series from each institution, and their data       collected in a dedicated on-line datasheet. The recruitment period will be 24 months, from       1st October 2017 to 30th September 2019. Every patient will be followed up at 30 days, 6       months, 1 year, and yearly thereafter, up to a minimum of 5 years after the index surgical       procedure. Afterwards yearly follow-up will be closed at the completion of the 10th year from       surgery for each patient.        On the basis of historical cohort data of local institutions, we expect to enrol a minimum of       4000 patients at the end of the first year, and a minimum of 8000 patients at the end of the       second year of enrolment.        Written informed consent will be obtained from the patient or patient's authorized       representative prior to enrolment in the Registry. In case of emergent surgery, informed       consent will be collected from the patient's family (or legal representative) before surgery,       as well as from the patient after surgery (if unable to give it before intervention). This       consent will be waived in case of death or severe neurological damage precluding adequate       postoperative patient informed consent. The study will be conducted in accordance with the       provisions of the Declaration of Helsinki.        Data management and monitoring Data will be collected into a dedicated datasheet with       predefined variables. Each patient enrolled in the Registry will be anonymized by the       generation of a code consisting of the initials of the enrolling Centre (2 letters), the       initial of name (1 letter) and surname (1 letter), and the date of birth (dd.mm.yyyy) (e.g.       Mr. John Smith, born on February 18th, 1953; enrolled in London = LOJS18021953). It is       responsibility of the E-AVR Steering Committee local member to generate the sequence to       maintain anonymized the entire set of data. It is also responsibility of the E-AVR Steering       Committee local member to protect confidentiality about patient identity before, during and       after the trial. Accordingly, external Central Statistical Core Lab (as well as all the other       E-AVR investigators) will be blinded towards patient identity.        All data will be retained in a secure location at each study-site during the conduct of the       study and for the 5-years after the end of the study, when all patient identifiable paper       records will be destroyed by confidential means.        Baseline characteristics, operative details and outcome data pertaining hospitalization will       be prospectively collected from hospital registries. Variables and events occurring after the       index hospital discharge will be collected from outpatient clinics at the individual       Institutions, and linking with regional Social Security Death and Events Master files where       available. In case of absent/missing data, variables and events will be collected by direct       phone contact with general practitioners, and only if persistently missed by phone contact       with patients and families.        Events and outcome variables will be adjudicated after agreement of two local E-AVR       Investigators, and collected at local Institutions. In the event of controversy on outcome       adjudication between the two local E-AVR Investigators, the outcome will be discussed and       adjudicated after a final consult inside the E-AVR Steering Committee.        Storage, analysis and auditing of data will be accomplished by an independent Central Core       Laboratory. Auditing of the dataset will be performed every six months by checking the data       of a minimum of 40% of the patients. Data without any patient identification code will be       submitted to the Principal Investigator and E-AVR Steering Committee for further data       checking and merging. Incomplete or contradictory data with patient identification code will       be sent from Central Core Statistical Lab to the E-AVR Steering Committee local member for       further data checking, review, correction and merging. The entire set of statistical analyses       will be available to all E-AVR researchers for the interpretation of data.        Ethics and Dissemination The study is approved by the local Institutional Review       Boards/Ethical Committees, according to local or national guidelines for approval of registry       studies. Patient's informed consent will be always obtained.        This multicenter, prospective open registry is designed with the aim of investigating a       number of controversial issues regarding current treatment-options and risk factors for the       surgical therapy of SAVS with or without CAD. Several studies and information are expected to       derive from the data collected in the registry. These data will provide further knowledge on       the mechanisms leading to adverse events during or after surgery for SAVS and help their       prevention, thus allowing a "tailored" surgical approach for the treatment of this disease.        Research findings from the E-AVR registry will be disseminated among the scientific       community. They will be presented at international congresses and published in peer reviewed       international journals in the fields of cardiac surgery and cardiology. Any formal       presentation or publication of data will be considered as a joint publication by the       participating physician(s) and will follow the recommendations of the International Committee       of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) for authorship. Data collection, analysis and writing       process will be monitored by the Steering Committee of the E-AVR, which is made up of the       Principal Investigator and a local Representing Member from each of the participating       centres. It is expected that periodical E-AVR Steering Committee meetings will occur, every 6       months for the first 2 years, yearly thereafter up to the end of follow-up. The Members of       the Steering Committee will take responsibility for the quality of data through local audit.        Investigators will be eligible for authorship if they contribute substantially to study       planning, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, writing and critical review of       the manuscripts. Two authors per centre will be included as main authors of each study. As a       member of the Steering Committee, the local Representing Member will take any decisions on       co-authorship related to his/her centre on the basis of the above criteria. Those researchers       who plan a sub-study, interpret the analysis and write the article will be the first and last       authors of the study. Analyses will be performed and/or monitored by an independent Central       Core Statistic Laboratory. When an article is submitted to a journal with a maximum number of       co-authors, the Steering Committee will decide on the authors on the basis of their       contribution to the design of the study, data collection, interpretation of data, writing,       and critical review of the paper.        In the event of future merging with other contemporary registries (e.g. collecting data on       concurrent interventional - i.e. percutaneous transfemoral, transcarotid or trans-axillary -       TAVR procedures), the co-authorship of comparative studies (e.g. between surgical and       interventional treatments) will be defined by the Steering Committees of the different       registries involved. However, data will not be made available for sharing until after       publication of the principal results of the study. Thereafter, anonymized individual patient       data will be made available for secondary research, conditional on assurance from the       secondary researcher that the proposed used of the data is compliant with the MRC Policy on       Data Preservation and Sharing regarding scientific quality, ethical requirements, and value       for money. Anonymized data will be shared as long as the patient has agreed and consented to       this. A minimum requirement with respect to scientific quality will be a publicly available       pre-specified protocol describing the purpose, methods and analysis of the secondary       research.
This is a prospective registry including patients accepted by the heart team for a TAVI       procedure. Patients will undergo a prolonged continuous ECG monitoring using the CardioSTAT®       device within the 3 months prior to the TAVI procedure. The duration of the ECG monitoring       will be of 1 week. There will be no restriction regarding the type of valve and approach used       for the TAVI procedure. All type of arrhythmic events will be recorded, as well as the       specific therapeutic measures implemented upon the occurrence of the arrhythmic event.       Following the TAVI procedure, the patients will be monitored (telemetry) until hospital       discharge. All arrhythmic events during the hospitalization period will be recorded. Clinical       follow-up will be performed at 30 days, and 1 year post-TAVI, and yearly thereafter up to       5-year follow-up.
nan
The AtriCure CryoICE Ablation System is being studied to ablate cardiac tissue during surgery       for the treatment of Persistent and Long-standing Persistent atrial fibrillation in open       concomitant cardiac surgery.        The effectiveness of the device will be demonstrated by establishing that the device       effectively eliminates persistent and long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation in a       clinically significant proportion of treated patients.
Severe asymptomatic organic mitral valve (MV) regurgitation with preserved left ventricular       (LV) function is a challenging clinical entity as data on the recommended treatment strategy       for these patients are scarce and conflicting, which is reflected in current guidelines.       European guidelines advocate a more conservative strategy i.e. watchful waiting, with yearly       echocardiography, whilst American guidelines are more in favour of early surgery to       reconstruct the MV, i.e. MV repair (in contrast to MV replacement) in order to prevent future       LV dysfunction and complaints.        A number of non-randomised trials show a favourable outcome of early surgery and the early       surgery strategy has shown to be associated with improved long-term survival, decreased       cardiac mortality and decreased morbidity compared with the conservative management       [citations 1-3]. On the other hand, non-randomised trials describe also that a conservative       strategy (i.e. watchful waiting) can be safely accomplished. If facilitated surgery is       performed in this population it has proven to be eventually associated with good       perioperative and postoperative outcome in 50% of the patients at 10 years when careful       follow-up is being carried out [citation 4]. Non-randomised trials inherently have a number       of drawbacks. A randomised trial comparing both strategies and objectivising the best       treatment strategy has never been performed.        The Dutch AMR (Asymptomatic Mitral Regurgitation) trial is a multicenter, prospective,       randomised trial comparing early MV repair versus watchful waiting in asymptomatic patients       with severe organic MV regurgitation and preserved LV function [citation 5, 6].
nan
This study is a prospective / retrospective, multicenterstudy after listing. The researchers       preliminarily confirmed that they could be enrolled in this study according to the diagnosis       of the subjects' medical history. After fully informed, they signed the informed consent, and       met the TAVR inclusion requirements (see the inclusion criteria for details). At the same       time, they registered the subjects in multiple centers. After the start of the trial, the       participants were enrolled in the study, All the subjects who met the inclusion criteria but       did not meet the discharge criteria were registered in the central registration system. The       patients were followed up for 30 days, 6 months and 12 months, and followed up by telephone       for 2, 3, 4 and 5 years.
The purpose of the present study is to ensure a continuous comparison of the TAVI-valves       implanted, and to monitor long-term valve performances.        Purpose: To randomize between two TAVI-valve types in patients who according to a heart team       conference is found eligible for treatment with more than one valve.        Hypotheses:          1. There is no difference in the combined endpoint (death, stroke, moderate/severe            para-valvular leakage, moderate/severe device stenosis) between the two valves to be            compared.          2. There is no difference between valves in secondary endpoints: death, stroke,            moderate/major paravalvular leakage, moderate/severe aortic device stenosis, new            pacemaker implantation, readmission for congestive heart failure, 6-minute walk test,            and degeneration of the valve as evaluated by computerized tomography (HCT),            transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), or MRI.        Design: Randomized controlled trial with clinical national registry follow-up.        Centers eligible for inclusion: Scandinavian and European centers who fulfill the above       mentioned criteria.        Randomization:        Before randomizing patients, the center decides which two valves the patient is found       eligible for, and enters these valves in the electronic randomization form (TrialPartner).       Randomization is then performed between these two valves. A patient is only randomized if a       dedicated technical TAVI conference has found the patient eligible for treatment with both       valves.        Consecutive cohorts are established.        In the current study we plan to initiate the following cohorts:        Cohort B: Patients randomized to the Sapien or the Myval TAVI valve.        Operator requirements:        Any procedure requires that the physician has performed at least 15 implantations with the       valve in use. Otherwise the procedure is performed according to the routine of the       institution.
PERSIST-AVR is designed to collect data on sutureless valve (Perceval sutureless aortic heart       valve), a new type of biological aortic valve, comparing data with standard biological aortic       valve, considered the gold standard for aortic valve replacement. This prospective,       randomized international multicenter study is planned to demonstrate, as primary endpoint,       the non inferiority of Major Adverse Cardiac and Cerebrovascular (MACCE) events at one year       while showing superiority in resource consumptions at hospital discharge in patients treated       with Perceval valve when compared to standard aortic valve replacement. The study is planned       to cover the lack of prospective, randomized comparison data between sutureless valve and       standard aortic biological sutured valve. To achieve the primary endpoint, 1234 patients will       be recruited in 60 worldwide investigational sites. The be part of the trial, investigational       sites should have demonstrated experience with the implantation of the Perceval and able to       implement the requirements of the study protocol.. All subjects with severe symptomatic       aortic stenosis or steno-insufficiency who are candidates for surgical replacement of their       native aortic valve according to established guidelines in current medical practice and as       specified in the Perceval valve Instruction for Use (IFU) are the intended population for       inclusion in this randomized trial. The patients will be followed for 5 years after the       implant, the total duration of study including the enrollment time will be 7 years
BACKGROUND:        Atrial fibrillation is an extremely common and increasingly prevalent cardiac arrhythmia,       particularly in the elderly, and is an important risk factor for stroke. Management of atrial       fibrillation remains controversial, and although antiarrhythmic drugs are widely used for       this condition, clinical studies to support their use are meager. Management of atrial       fibrillation has at least three components: restoration and maintenance of sinus rhythm;       heart rate control when maintenance of sinus rhythm or when cardioversion is not attempted or       impossible; and anticoagulation. The first component of management uses antiarrhythmic drugs       and the second uses a different group of antiarrhythmic drugs and catheter ablation. The       third is anticoagulant therapy for patients in whom normal sinus rhythm cannot be maintained       or in whom cardioversion is not attempted.        The initiative was developed by staff of the Clinical Trials Branch and the NHLBI Working       Group on Atrial Fibrillation which met in Bethesda in April, 1993. The initiative was given       concept clearance by the February 1994 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. The       Request for Proposals was released in May 1994.        DESIGN NARRATIVE:        A randomized multicenter trial. The trial enrolled only patients with atrial fibrillation who       were at high risk for stroke, that is, over 65 years of age or less than 65 and with one or       more other risk factors for stroke such as systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus,       congestive heart failure, transient ischemic attack, prior cerebral vascular accident. High       risk patients were treated with the anticoagulant warfarin. Cardioversion (electrical or       pharmacologic) might have been attempted before randomization, but if it was unsuccessful,       the patient was excluded from further consideration for randomization. Normal sinus rhythm       must have persisted for one hour or greater after cardioversion to qualify as successful       cardioversion. Patients were randomly assigned to treatment groups which included maintenance       of sinus rhythm or heart rate control. Both treatment groups had two steps.        In the maintenance of sinus rhythm group, the choice of drugs was left to the primary       treating physician, to be chosen from amiodarone, sotalol, propafenone, flecainide,       quinidine, moricizine, disopyramide, procainamide, and combinations of these drugs.       Atrioventricular nodal blocking drugs were also administered unless contraindicated. The       major substudy for AFFIRM randomized initial drug choice among amiodarone, sotalol, and class       I drugs. Prior drugs which were ineffective or poorly tolerated were not repeated. There were       various drug exclusions depending on the patient's condition. Patients in the maintenance of       sinus rhythm group had multiple cardioversions as needed. If there was treatment failure or       intolerance after two or more pharmacologic trials, patients were considered for innovative       therapy in Step II. In Step II, two maintenance doses of amiodarone were included, a low dose       of 100 to 200 mg/day and a normal dose of 300 to 400 mg/day. Each dose of amiodarone was       considered to be a single drug trial, so that patients who received treatment with amiodarone       at both dosage levels were considered to have had two drug trials. It was not mandatory that       Step II therapies be applied in any individual patient. The following innovative Step II       therapies were approved for use in the study: (1) ablation of an atrial focus in patients       with type I atrial flutter, if it was clinically documented that the atrial flutter led to       atrial fibrillation; (2) atrial pacing alone, with or without documented bradycardia; (3)       atrial pacing and antiarrhythmic drugs, with either single site or multiple site atrial       pacing; and (4) surgical maze or atrial isolation procedures at selected centers.       Catheter-based ablative procedures, such as those attempting to mimic the maze procedure were       not approved in this study. Implanted atrial cardioverter defibrillators were also not       approved. All therapy was periodically reviewed and subject to modification by the Steering       Committee with concurrence by the DSMB and the NHLBI. In the event that sinus rhythm was not       maintainable by any treatment, patients crossed over to rate control and anticoagulation.        The heart rate control arm used heart rate as the therapeutic target, rather than dose of       medications. Drug dosage was adjusted to achieve target heart rates. During atrial       fibrillation, heart rate was assessed both at rest and during activity at each clinic visit.       The pharmacologic therapies approved for use in this arm included: beta blockers, verapamil,       diltiazem, digoxin, or combinations of these drugs . When Step I pharmacologic therapies       failed after two or more drug trials, the treating physician could select an approved Step II       innovative therapy. The two innovative therapies approved for use with the heart rate control       arm were: (1) atrioventricular node modification by catheter ablation, with or without       placement of a pacemaker, with or without continued drugs to slow atrioventricular node       conduction, and (2) total atrioventricular junctional ablation and placement of a pacemaker.        The primary endpoint by which the two strategies were compared was total mortality, analyzed       by intention-to-treat. Secondary endpoints were composite end points (total mortality,       disabling intracranial bleed, stroke, disabling anoxic encephalopathy, cardiac arrest, major       noncentral nervous system bleed, cost of therapy, and quality of life. Follow-up was a       minimum of two years and an average of 3.5 years. Recruitment and intervention extended from       November 1995 through October 1999 with 4,060 patients enrolled by 213 sites.
Infective endocarditis (IE) is a life-threatening disease and studies suggest that the       incidence of IE has almost doubled in the last twenty years. Despite improved       disease-management and diagnostics (i.e. antibiotics, surgery, and imaging techniques) IE       remains a condition that is hard to diagnose and associated with high mortality (≈1/3 die       within one year). Surgery is a key part of the clinical practice in IE, but the role of       surgery has been greatly debated and is also used with great variation among centers. Valve       repair and replacement are high-risk procedures and per-operative risk is therefore also a       natural part of decision for surgery. Clinical guidelines on surgical indications have       remained stable in the past decades; however, these recommendations are not based on       randomized data and at the moment we are putting very sick patients with endocarditis through       high-risk procedures without the proper knowledge and perhaps we refrain from surgery where       benefit may be likely.        Eligible patients for study inclusion (inclusion criteria are met), will be assessed at the       respective departments in Denmark where IE patients are treated (or in similar department for       the international centers). All departments refer to a local endocarditis heart team at a       tertiary center with cardiothoracic surgical capabilities. If no exclusion criteria exist       (confirmed by the local endocarditis heart team) and the patients sign informed consent after       a decent time for reflection (24 hours) then randomization will be done as soon as possible.       Study participants with IE are randomized to either:          1. Medical Therapy and surgery: Standard of care treatment with antibiotics according to            national and international guidelines depending on the microbiological agent and the            investigators aim to perform surgery within 48 hours of randomization.          2. Medical Therapy alone with standard of care treatment with antibiotics according to            guidelines depending on the microbiological agent.        Point of randomization will be in the hospital when the patient is assessed for open heart       valve surgery by the heart team.        If study participants are included in the study and are randomized to the medical treatment       arm of the trial, participants will stay at the local IE center and continue treatment there.       If participants are randomized to surgery, the participants will be transferred to a tertiary       center as soon as possible and returned to the non-surgical center for completement of       treatment. After end of treatment all participants will be discharged to routinely follow-up       at one- and four-weeks and at three months. Additionally, a 12 months visit will be planned       for all study participants.
nan
Recent large meta-analyses and a large retrospective study from the STS/ACC TVT Registry       demonstrated improved survival in female versus male aortic sclerosis patients undergoing       TAVI despite their advanced age and increased rates of major peri-procedural vascular       complications, bleeding events and strokes. These gender-related patient profile differences       have also been present in multicentre cohorts across the world. A recent meta-analysis by       Siontis et al. showed that TAVI, when compared with SAVR, was associated with a significant       13% relative risk reduction in 2-year mortality, a benefit more pronounced amongst females       and patients undergoing transfemoral TAVI.        In a recent meta-analysis, the female-specific survival advantage from TAVI over SAVR was       explored. Amongst females, TAVI recipients had a significantly lower mortality than SAVR       recipients, at 1 year (OR 0.68; 95%CI 0.50 to 0.94). Amongst males there was no difference in       mortality between TAVI and SAVR at 1 year (OR 1.09; 95%CI 0.86 to 1.39). There was       statistically significant evidence of a difference in treatment effect between genders at 1       year (p interaction = 0.02). In an attempt to explore the mechanisms for an increased       mortality rate in women undergoing SAVR, different endpoints were explored in female patients       exclusively. It was shown that women, undergoing SAVR, having both a higher periprocedural       mortality, higher rates of bleeding and acute kidney injury, worse patient prosthesis match       and worse long term recovery of left ventricular function.In the recent PARTNER 3 the       composite of death from any cause, stroke, or rehospitalization had occurred in 42 patients       (8.5%) in the TAVI group as compared with 68 patients (15.1%) in the surgery group at 1 year.       The difference was 6.6% (95%CI -10.8% to -2.3%) and thus exceeded the pre-defined       non-inferiority margin of 6%.        Subgroup analyses of the primary end point at 1 year showed no heterogeneity of treatment       effect in any of the subgroups that were examined including gender (p=0.27). There were 292       women included with an endpoint rate of 18.5% for SAVR (men 13.8%) and 8.1% for TAVI (men       8.7%), showing a clear trend for an increased benefit of women undergoing TAVI instead of       SAVR (rate difference -10.4%; 95%CI -18.3% to -2.5%). Nonetheless, the benefits of TAVI were       preserved in both men and women.Earlier observational and clinical studies indicated an       increased risk for women undergoing SAVR compared to men while being at a comparable risk for       TAVI. In a recent meta-analysis of TAVI vs. SAVR in men and women the risk of dying from the       intervention was reduced by a relative 32% in women (OR 0.38; 95%CI 0.50-0.94) while there       was no such difference in men (OR 1.09; 95%CI 0.86-1.39). This was mostly documented as being       the effect of a reduced periprocedural mortality with TAVI (-54%; OR 0.46; 95%CI 0.22-0.96)       and major bleeding (-57%; OR 0.43; 95%CI 0.25-0.73) while the difference in strokes and acute       kidney injury did not reach statistical significance. Taken all available scientific data on       the comparison of TAVI versus open surgery in patients with indication for AVR together it       remains probable, that independently of the individual surgical risk female patients in       particular seem to benefit from a non-surgical aortic valve replacement strategy.        As the indirect comparisons of the intermediate to low risk outcomes in PARTNER 2/3 suggest a       favorable risk reduction in women compared to men as described, the investigators believe it       is timely for a dedicated trial to demonstrate the non-inferiority of TAVI in women compared       to SAVR and, in case of this being true, whether TAVI is actually superior to performing       SAVR.
Approximately 600 subjects implanted with the Evolut™ PRO at up to 40 sites in Europe. Other       regions may be added depending on the regulatory status of the device.
This is a multi-center, single-arm, prospective, non-randomized, interventional study. A       maximum of 160 subjects will be treated at up to 25 centers in the US. The study will include       male and female patients with a history of non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who are       undergoing concomitant cardiac surgery. Subjects will be followed and assessed after       procedure and for 12 months.        The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Cardioblate       Surgical Ablation iRF and CryoFlex hand held devices to support an indication expansion to       include treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation and long-standing persistent atrial       fibrillation (non-paroxysmal atrial fibrillation) to the product labeling.
Rationale        1.1. Vasoplegia and cardiac surgery:        Vasoplegia Syndrome (VS), prevailing in about 20% of cardiac surgical procedures (1), is       defined as low mean arterial pressure (MAP) with normal or high cardiac indices and which is       resistant to treatment with the commonly used vasopressors. (2,3) Vasoplegia might occur       either during or after the cardiopulmonary bypass periods or during the postoperative period       during the intensive care unit (ICU) stay. (3) Many factors have been found to be related to       the increased Vasoplegia during the cardiopulmonary bypass period such as left ventricular       ejection fraction more than 40%, male patients, elderly patients, higher body mass index,       long cardiopulmonary bypass time, hypotension upon the start of cardiopulmonary bypass,       perioperative use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE) and presence of infective       endocarditis. (4,5)        1.2. Effects of Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) on Post cardiotomy Vasoplegia.        Cardiopulmonary bypass itself may intensify the effects of vasoplegia due to hemodilution       which decreases the blood viscosity, so, reducing the overall peripheral vascular resistance.       Moreover, the interaction of blood with the tubing of the cardiopulmonary bypass machine       results in the release of inflammatory mediators which play an important role in reducing the       peripheral resistance and aggravating the hypotension. Although compensatory and       auto-regulatory mechanisms play an important role in maintaining adequate tissue perfusion,       hypotension during the cardiopulmonary bypass period may result in poor outcomes as       postoperative stroke (4) especially if the mean arterial pressure is below 65 mmHg. (6)        1.3. Hyperlactatemia after cardiac surgery        Lactate was used as a marker for adequate tissue perfusion since the mid-1800s. Although the       literature has illustrated the undesirable effects of high lactate levels, however, the       cause, the prevention as well as treatment measures of hyperlactatemia remain obscure.       Additionally, lactic acidosis or hyperlactatemia might occur in cases of refractory       vasoplegia. A rise in lactate levels is common during cardiac surgery and is well known for       its deleterious and its association with poor patients' outcomes. (7)        Owing to its detrimental effects, measures to reduce the effects and treat vasoplegia were       used. Firstly, excluding any equipment or mechanical failure such as the arterial line       monitor, adjusting the bypass flows for higher cardiac index (CI>2.2), confirming the proper       cannula position and ruling out any aortic dissection.        Secondly, adjusting some physiological parameters is of great value as checking hematocrit       level for excessive hemodilution, adjusting the anesthetics with severe vasodilatory       properties, excluding the possibility of a drug reaction or anaphylaxis and temperature       management during hypothermic bypass.        Thirdly, the use of conventional vasopressor agents as phenylephrine, norepinephrine, and       vasopressin. Finally, the use of some off-label agents as vitamin C, hydroxocobalamin,       angiotensin 2, methylene blue and prostaglandin inhibitors. (8)        1.4. Why this clinical trial?        The use of norepinephrine during CPB has its own potential benefits. It is not clear if the       use of continuous norepinephrine infusion during CPB would be effective and safe in lessening       the postoperative hyperlactatemia and development of vasoplegia after cardiac surgery.        The here proposed randomized controlled clinical trial will test the use of continuous       norepinephrine infusion during CPB with respect to the efficacy and safety to reduce the       postoperative rise in blood lactate level.
The study objective is to document the clinical and device performance outcomes of the Evolut       R system used in routine hospital practice in a large patient cohort for the treatment of       symptomatic native aortic valve stenosis or a stenosed, insufficient, or combined surgical       bioprosthetic valve failure necessitating valve replacement.        Prospective, single arm, multi-center, observational, post market study. In Australia and       Canada it is a prospective, single arm, multi-center pre-market study.        Up to 60 centers worldwide. Geographies may include Europe, Australia, Middle East and       Africa, Latin America and Canada.        Approximately 1000 implanted subjects, consented for follow-up through three years.        For each subject, data will be collected preoperatively, intra-operatively, at hospital       discharge, 30 days, 1, 2 and 3 years.
The study consists of 7 visits spread out across two phases over 1 year. The clinical       investigation will end at 30 days post-implantation. The subsequent 3-month, 6-month and       1-year follow-up (FU) visits will thus be considered post-market clinical follow-up (PMCF).        The FIH study will start by evaluating the safety and feasibility of the device and study       design of the Vienna Aortic Valve SE System in 10 patients with SSAS. The FIH patients must       meet all study eligibility criteria. Safety and feasibility assessments for patients in the       FIH period will include implantation success, hemodynamic performance and monitoring of       adverse events (AEs). Early FIH data (i.e. data from the first 10 patients to have completed       visit 3 at hospital discharge) will be provided to the Data and Safety Monitoring Board       (DSMB) for review during which study enrollment will be paused. After reviewing the safety       results from the FIH study, the DSMB will make a recommendation on whether the study may       continue as planned. FIH patients will continue to be followed up for 1 year as per protocol.       Data from the 10 FIH patients and the subsequent 75 patients will be analyzed together for       the pivotal study endpoints.        Upon a decision from the DSMB to proceed with the study, enrolment of patients will resume.        The clinical investigation phase comprises 4 visits (V1 to V4). After implantation of the IMD       at visit 2, early performance and safety assessment of the device will be performed at 30       days (V4). The post-market surveillance phase comprises 3 visits (V5-V7), extending from 3       months to 1 year post-implantation, to evaluate the long-term safety and performance profile       of the device.
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the       Medtronic CoreValve® System (MCS) in a subset of subjects excluded from the U.S. Extreme Risk       Pivotal Trial population due to one or more additional co-morbidities, as measured by a       composite of all-cause death or major stroke at 12 months, in the treatment of symptomatic       severe aortic stenosis in subjects necessitating aortic valve replacement. Subjects enrolled       in this study have a predicted operative mortality or serious, irreversible morbidity risk of       ≥50% at 30 days associated with surgical aortic valve replacement.
The Accel AV study is a prospective, single-arm, global, multi-center clinical study to       characterize the chronic AV synchrony in subjects implanted with the market released Micra AV       system. The study is planned to be conducted in the US and Hong Kong. Overall, the study is       expected to be conducted at approximately 20 centers.The expected total study duration is       approximately 12-15 months, representing the time necessary to enroll the target sample size       and to complete the 3-month follow-up visit.
Atrio-ventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) is the most common form of       supraventricular tachycardia in adults. The substrate of AVNRT is dual nodal       atrio-ventricular (AV) physiology represented by the presence of slow (SP) and fast pathway       (FP) conduction. Selective radiofrequency (RF) ablation of the slow AV nodal pathway can cure       the arrhythmia with acute success rates varying from 95 to 98% and low recurrence rates       during long-term follow-up.        The compact AV node sends two posterior extensions with node-like tissue distributed towards       the coronary sinus and tricuspid annulus (right posterior extension) and towards the mitral       annulus (left posterior extension). Earlier literature suggested that the right posterior       nodal extension is involved in the tachycardia circuit of most patients with AVNRT (slow       pathway input). The tachycardia circuit may rarely involve the left posterior nodal       extension, in which case a left-sided ablation procedure is needed. The right-sided approach       is sufficient for the majority of cases and represents today the standard protocol for AVNRT       ablation.        Lee et Al., in view of current anatomical and electrophysiological knowledge concerning the       AV node, proposed the following sequential approach for SP ablation:        I. the isthmus between tricuspid annulus and coronary sinus ostium (the usual site of slow       pathway), II. the tricuspid edge of coronary sinus ostium (by moving the ablation catheter       tip slightly in and out of the coronary sinus), III. the septum lower than coronary sinus       ostium, moving higher up on the half of Koch's triangle along the septum, IV. one or two       burns inside the first few centimeters of the coronary sinus, V. left side of the septum       (last).        The investigators hypothesize that the use of a standardized electro-anatomical guided       strategy, using a sequential approach as follows:          1. Right-side postero-septal tricuspid annulus          2. Coronary sinus          3. Left-side postero-septal mitral annulus        for slow pathway AVNRT ablation is safe and efficient, increasing the chance of a successful       ablation in difficult cases, while reducing the need of re-do procedures and the risk for       high-degree atrio-ventricular block.        The protocol will be applied in all patients undergoing slow pathway ablation for typical       AVNRT. Those with unsuccessful right-sided attempt and who undergo coronary sinus and       left-sided ablation attempt will be eligible for registry inclusion.
nan
REDUCE-SWEDEHEART is designed as a registry-based, randomized, parallel, open-label,       multicenter trial.        Patients, day 1-7 after myocardial infarction, who have undergone a coronary angiography and       with preserved left ventricular systolic ejection fraction will be randomized to either oral       beta-blockade (see "Intervention" for detailed description) at a dose according to the       treating physician, or no beta-blockade. To allow quick inclusion the randomization module       will be accessible by a simple web-based log-in procedure. Concomitantly, all baseline data       about each individual patient will be collected from the SWEDEHEART registry. Patients will       then be followed regarding all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, heart failure, atrial       fibrillation, and patient-related outcome measures (for a subgroup of patients). Patients       that are eligible but not included in REDUCE-SWEDEHEART will also be followed regarding       chosen treatment and the primary and secondary endpoints.        Follow-up will continue until 944 primary endpoints have been observed (endpoint driven). All       analyses will be performed on the intention-to-treat set, defined as all intentionally       randomized patients, by randomized treatment. The primary endpoint is death or new MI.       Information about death will be obtained from the Swedish population registry. Information       regarding new myocardial infarction during hospitalization and readmission because of       myocardial infarction or other outcome (secondary outcomes, see section below), will be       obtained from the SWEDEHEART-registry (for myocardial infarction) and the patient registry of       the National board of health and welfare.
Stress echo (SE) 2020 is an international, multicenter, prospective, effectiveness study       started in 2016 that conceptualized, disseminated and validated a new approach for functional       testing within and beyond coronary artery disease (CAD). As originally planned, the study       created the cultural, informatic and scientific infrastructure connecting high-volume,       accredited SE labs, sharing common criteria of indication, execution, reporting and archiving       SE. This approach allowed acquisition of original safety, feasibility, and outcome data in       evidence-poor diagnostic fields, beyond the established core application of SE in CAD based       on regional wall motion abnormality (RWMA) assessment. SE2020 standardized procedures,       validated emerging signs, and integrated new information with established knowledge, helping       to build a next-generation SE lab adopting the ABCDE protocol. Each and every step of       ABCDE-SE provides independent and incremental prognostic information building on the prior       steps and identifies distinct patient phenotypes and vulnerabilities possibly outlining       different therapeutic targets: myocardial ischemia in step A, pulmonary congestion with       B-lines in step B, preload reserve and left ventricular contractile reserve (LVCR) in step C,       coronary microcirculation with coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) or real-time myocardial       contrast echocardiography in step D, and cardiac autonomic balance with heart rate reserve       (HRR) in step E. This shared practice can now be used as a new standard of care and a       suitable platform for the next wave of studies converging towards SE 2030 and sharing with       the older SE2020 study some distinct features: effectiveness study, performed in the real       world with real doctors facing real clinical problems in real consecutive patients; upstream       quality control of reading and direct entering of data from peripheral centers in the data       bank so that evidence is obtained inside and outside highly specialized academic centers;       identification of simple yet innovative objectives relevant to change the clinical practice.       These features are completely different from efficacy studies, as when highly specialized       centers recruit highly selected patients, the resulting data may be difficult to translate in       clinical practice. For these reasons, the American Society of Echocardiography has identified       already in 2013 as a top research need "the development of a registry of echocardiographic       information (and eventually images) that can serve as a platform for quality improvement and       clinical research. Such registry data would be accessible to the research community       facilitating a broad range of clinical research on the effectiveness of echocardiography for       the improvement of patient management and outcome".        SE2030 will establish the platform of evidence to build the perfect SE test, suitable for all       patients, anywhere, anytime, also quantitative and operator independent. The need for such an       ideal test is especially vital in our times, when the economic crisis, the increased       awareness of cancer and non-cancer radiation damage, the pressing need for climate-neutral       choices in health care, and the unavoidable trend to externalize health care are potent       propelling forces, boosted by COVID pandemics, for the diffusion of a low cost,       radiation-free, climate-friendly, and portable technique such as cardiovascular ultrasound.        Methodology. Five important aspects will be shared by SE2030 in full continuity with SE2020,       with minor adaptations and implementations.        Upstream quality control. The study is a prospective registry but it is necessary to have an       upstream quality control with a certified reader from each center. A mandatory quality       control is necessary for conventional and innovative parameters, since the volume of activity       is necessary but not sufficient to ensure the quality of reading.        Peripheral reading and inclusivity. Once the reader has been certified, the peripheral       reading will be directly entered in the data bank via the Redcap program property of the       Italian Society of Echocardiography and Cardiovascular Imaging. This will allow a more       flexible and rapid platform, less error in data inputting and better compliance with new       regulations strictly protecting privacy in clinical studies. Another feature of SE2030 is       inclusivity, so that any center meeting the selection criteria can be enrolled, allowing       centers traditionally outside the editorial stage but producing high quality clinical       activity to contribute to generate data relevant for the scientific community.        Uniform methodology. Each laboratory will adopt the preferred choice of stress among       physical, pharmacologic or pacing stress according to standardized protocol in line with       guidelines recommendations. Physical exercise includes semi-supine or upright bicycle       exercise, and peak or post-treadmill exercise. Pharmacologic testing will be with dobutamine       or vasodilators (dipyridamole, adenosine or regadenoson) according to physician preferences,       patients' contraindications, local availability and cost. Pacing stress can be performed with       transesophageal atrial pacing or with external programming of a permanent pacemaker.       Independent of the chosen form of stress, execution, performance, archiving and       interpretation of testing will follow a standardized format with the ABCDE protocol. From the       technical viewpoint of success rate, a limiting step is step D. Step D is easy and feasible       with vasodilator, less easy but still highly feasible with dobutamine, not easy and less       feasible with semi-supine exercise, and virtually impossible with (peak or post) treadmill       exercise. Therefore, our recommendation is to use semi-supine exercise, capturing coronary       flow signal in early or intermediate stages of exercise when most flow increase occurs and       feasibility is still high, before it drops at higher levels of exercise. When treadmill is       used, step D is skipped; if information is deemed important, a vasodilator test can be       performed at 30' after the end of exercise focused on CFVR and heart rate response.        All laboratories will be granted with free artificial intelligence (AI) software and       encouraged to use ultrasound enhancing agents when needed to help leading edge technology       upgrade and uniformity of methods across all study laboratories .        The full spectrum of enrolled patients evaluated for clinically relevant endpoints. The       various projects will include patients with known or suspected CAD (project 1), known or       suspected heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (project 2), hypertrophic       cardiomyopathy (HCM, project 3), status post-chest radiotherapy and chemotherapy (project 4),       repaired Tetralogy of Fallot (project 7), cardio-pulmonary involvement post-COVID 19 (project       8), post-ischemic (project 10) and primary valvular heart disease (project 11) and suspected       coronary vasospasm, a diagnosis frequently missed but important to recognize as a possible       cause of life-threatening disease, which is easy to treat when promptly identified (project       12). The 12 protocols running on the SE-ABCDE platform are spread all over the spectrum of       cardiovascular disease, from severe valvular heart disease to suspected CAD in patients with       normal LV function. Potential heart donors with brain death will be evaluated to assess the       suitability for donation of hearts currently dismissed on the basis of clinical history       criteria but in the absence of a cardiac functional evaluation (project 9). The study will       exploit and possibly contribute to upgrade the leading edge quantitative and       operator-independent technology of AI-SE and cardiac strain (project 5) for image       interpretation and data analysis and will also evaluate the results of SE parameters in the       context of powerful environmental modulators of stress results and/or long-term outcome such       as air pollutants and medical radiation exposure analyzed through big data mining with AI       (project 6). The overarching aim of the study is to make SE practice more uniform, versatile,       standardized, quantitative and evidence-rich, producing data potentially relevant to change       clinical practice.        Sponsored by a professional scientific society. The study is investigator-driven and not       industry-driven. It is endorsed by an independent-not for profit professional society       (Italian Society of Echocardiography and Cardiovascular Imaging) and not sponsored by       industry, although some materials useful for project completion such as AI-software will be       donated by industrial partners for recruiting centers.
DDD pacing improves symptoms and relieves LV outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction in most       patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Notably, when pacing is temporarily       discontinued, the beneficial effects of pacing are evident in sinus rhythm. The long term       results of this novel therapy are, however, uncertain. We propose (1) to record the       hemodynamic changes following >4 years of pacing; and (2) to determine whether DDD pacing       continues to be necessary in patients who have had a substantial relief of their LVOT       obstruction. Patients who have had >50% reduction in LVOT pressure gradients will be       randomized to two pacing modalities: DDD at 70 beats per minute and AAI pacing at 70 beats       per minute (DDD switched off), and reevaluated after a six-month period.
Cardiac thromboembolism attributed to atrial fibrillation (AF), the most frequent cardiac       arrhythmia, is responsible for up to one-third of ischemic strokes.        Several factors have been proposed to predict AF, as findings in 12-lead ECG       (electrocardiogram) or Holter ECG, epidemiological or echocardiographic parameters.        The main purpose of this research project is to test the diagnostic accuracy of the atrial       electromechanical conduction time, measured as septal total atrial conduction time "sPA-TDI",       an echocardiographic parameter, and the LaHAsPa-Score, which is based on patient       characteristics and echocardiographic measurements for the detection of AF in patients       diagnosed with ESUS or TIA, utilizing a 7-day ambulatory ECG monitor and incidental detection       of AF during a two-year follow-up period, including detection via implantable cardiac monitor       or pacemaker, if applicable.        Other echocardiographic measurements including left atrial volume index (area-length method),       atrial electromechanical delay, left atrial myocardial strain together with laboratory,       12-channel ECG, Holter ECG findings, and established risk scores will be compared to the main       parameters of interest.        The investigators expect that the results will help with better risk stratification and       targeted monitoring periods for atrial fibrillation in patients with ESUS or TIA.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is connected with an increased morbidity and mortality. In addition,       quality of life is diminished due to palpitations, dyspnea, dizziness and syncope. AF is       frequently associated with valvular and coronary disease. In the AF patients undergoing       valvular or coronary surgery the arrhythmia almost always relapses. For symptom control       anti-arrhythmic drugs and cardioversion are used but breakthrough arrhythmias and side       effects of the drugs happen frequently. For more effective symptom control "add-on"       arrhythmia surgery is being advocated. However, at present we do not know whether add-on       arrhythmia surgery indeed affects morbidity and quality of life. In this respect the benefit       of chronic sinus rhythm has to outweigh the risks of a prolonged operation. In addition,       cardiovascular complaints unrelated to AF may persist even after successful operation, thus       offsetting the benefit of chronic sinus rhythm. Add-on surgery is more costly than standard       surgery but this may compare favourably with shorter hospital admission due to less frequent       post-operative AF.        Valvular heart disease is frequently associated with ventricular remodelling: a decreased       ventricular function and atrial dilatation. AF itself may worsen heart failure due to a       tachycardiomyopathy. Elimination of AF might therefore enhance recovery from structural and       functional remodelling and promote recovery of quality of life after the operation.        The PIAF, RACE and AFFIRM have shown that chronic sinus rhythm is not necessarily associated       with a reduced morbidity or enhanced quality of life. PIAF however showed that exercise       tolerance was better when rhythm control was achieved. Further analyses of RACE and AFFIRM       are pending. One drawback of the above studies is the fact that chronic sinus rhythm is       difficult to obtain. In PIAF, RACE and AFFIRM only 30 to 50% was in sinus rhythm at the end       of follow-up. By contrast, arrhythmia surgery is a highly effective treatment in this       respect.        Forty patients underwent a (phase 1-study) coronary bypass- or valve surgery with add-on       arrhythmia surgery in the same way as in this protocol proposed. This means epicardial on       beating heart and without use of the heart-lung machine. In the last follow-up 80 % of the       patients not longer were in atrial fibrillation. With similar treatment procedures, but more       invasive, so on the arrested heart and endo cardially, success percentages reported varying       from 60 % till 80%.        This large variance in success rate is probably related to the primary course of the disease       and the degree of the morphological abnormality. In spite of these meaningful results       ''add-on'' arrhythmia surgery is no general accepted treatment. The intended patient       population remains generally untreated. Historical data of patients from the university       hospital of Maastricht show that no add on treatment has a success rate of 25% of patients in       sinus rhythm.        Considering the above a randomised comparison of add-on arrhythmia surgery and standard       surgery is warranted.
ZipLine Medical, Inc. has developed a novel, non-invasive skin closure device called "Zip       Surgical Skin Closure" to replace sutures, staples and glue for closure of the skin layer for       surgical incisions or laceration repair. The device is designed to provide closure speed       superior to sutures, while resulting in a suture-like cosmetic outcome.The ZIPS study is a       randomized, clinical trial comparing outcomes of procedures that use the Zip Surgical Skin       Closure device with the outcomes of procedures that use stitches. The Zip Surgical Skin       Closure is not an investigational device and is currently used in hospital across the United       States. The Zip Surgical Skin Closure is a non-invasive (in other words, does not pierce the       skin or enter into the wound) device to hold skin closed while healing can occur. It adheres       to the skin close to the incision and uses adjustable straps to hold the incision closed. It       is typically worn on the skin for 7-14 days and is removed by peeling from the skin. Patients       will be randomized to either Zip Surgical Skin Closure or sutures, in addition to dissolvable       sutures for the deeper layers, for surgical procedures for cardiovascular implantable       electronic devices (CIED) i.e. pacemakers or defibrillators. Both of these closure techniques       are considered standard of care at this facility and are not themselves experimental.       However, the goal of this experimental study is to see if there are any significant       differences between the two closure methods, in a controlled study environment.        Since the Zip Surgical Skin Closure device is relatively new to the market, there is a       limited amount of information available describing the experience of patients and doctors       using the device. In this study, the investigators will be looking to compare the Zip       Surgical Skin Closure and stitches methods for the time necessary for the surgeon to close       the incision, cosmetic appearance of the resulting scar, and satisfaction of you and your       surgeon. The investigators will also be monitoring both study groups for occurrence of any       adverse (unfavorable) events. Patients will be followed for a total of 3 months for this       study. All study visits align with standard of care follow up for post-implantation of CIED.       Non-identifiable pictures will be obtained of the scar during follow up and both patients and       surgeons will complete questionnaires indicating their experience and satisfaction with the       either skin closure method.
nan
CARDIAWAVE has developed a new non-invasive, real-time image-guided, therapeutic approach to       treat patients suffering from Calcified Aortic Stenosis. CARDIAWAVE's Valvosoft device is a       new ultrasound therapy based on a disruptive technology involving delivering an extremely       precise and focused ultrasound beam to perform a reparative effect on the aortic valve       leaflets, softening the valve's tissues, restoring leaflet mobility, and therefore improving       the overall clinical status related to the aortic valve stenosis. In this study, a brai-MRI       is performed before the procedure and 24-72 hours after the procedure to detect       cerebrovascular events.This is a FIM study
Atrial fibrillation is the most commonly encountered sustained cardiac arrhythmia in medical       practice and it is often associated with atrial flutter. In patients with the new pacemaker       generation EVIA, the home-monitoring technology provides specific and clinical relevant       notifications for detection of atrial arrhythmias. Combined with holters memories, this can       help to optimize the treatment of supraventricular arrhythmia (SVA) such as atrial       fibrillation or flutter.        This study will compare in the two groups the delay to implement for the first time a       treatment for the supraventricular arrhythmia (antiarrhythmic drugs and/or an antithrombotic       treatment).
nan
nan
Background        TAVI has emerged as a valuable minimal-invasive treatment option in patients with symptomatic       severe aortic valve stenosis at prohibitive or increased risk for conventional open-heart       surgery. AV conduction disturbances and arrhythmias before, during or after TAVI remain a       matter of concern as they have consequences.        Prior to TAVI the ICM will be inserted under the skin of the chest under local anesthesia.       The device will be interrogated just prior to readmission for TAVI and thereafter at 1, 3, 6,       and 12 months of follow-up. The incidence of symptomatic as well as silent brady- and       tachyarrhythmias will be recorded, and its impact on medical and device treatment as well as       clinical outcomes analyzed.        All patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI at the institution       irrespective selected bioprosthesis will be included in the study. Final decision on       eligibility will be made by the local Heart Team.        Objective        To investigate the incidence, nature and prognostic significance of AV-conduction       disturbances and arrhythmias among patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis       undergoing TAVI before, during and after the procedure using a small implantable cardiac       monitoring system (ICM; Medtronic REVEAL LinQTM). The primary endpoint of the study is to       establish the incidence of new onset atrial fibrillation and complete AV-block within 12       months after TAVI.        Methods        One hundred patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI will be       enrolled in this prospective, observational study. Prior to TAVI (at least 4 weeks), at the       time of preprocedural hemodynamic and anatomical assessment, the ICM will be inserted under       the skin of the chest under local anesthesia. The device will be interrogated just prior to       readmission for TAVI and thereafter at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months of follow-up. The incidence of       symptomatic as well as silent brady- and tachyarrhythmias will be recorded, and its impact on       medical and device treatment as well as clinical outcomes analyzed.        The study is observational: the patients will not be assigned to a specific intervention.       Patients consenting will be monitored using a specific device that has been approved for       market release. The objective of the study is to use the information obtained with this       monitoring device to assess the incidence, nature and prognostic significance of       atrioventricular conduction disturbances and arrhythmias among patients with severe,       symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation before, during       and after the procedure. The objective of the study is not to investigate the performance of       the monitoring device.
nan
This study will examine the use of TAVR (Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement), which is a       minimally invasive procedure designed to replace the aortic valve inside the heart. In this       study, TAVR will be performed using the JenaValve Pericardial TAVR System, which is intended       to help treat symptomatic severe aortic regurgitation.
The CONFIDENCE registry study will be conducting as a prospective, non-randomized,       observational, single-arm, multi-center study.        Approximately 1000 subjects with severe symptomatic (NYHA class ≥ II) aortic stenosis (AS),       will undergo Portico™ Transcatheter Aortic Heart Valve implantation.        The subject data will be collected at baseline, index procedure, pre- discharge, 30 days and       12 months from the index procedure.
Vision        The Resuscitative TEE Collaborative Registry aims to accelerate the development of       outcome-oriented research and knowledge translation on the use of TEE in emergency and       critical care settings.        Mission        The registry aims to catalyze clinical research involving the use of TEE in critically-ill       patients through the following strategic initiatives:          -  Facilitate collaboration between different clinical teams and organizations across the            entire spectrum of users of TEE in acute care setting, including emergency departments            and intensive care units.          -  Standardize data collection and reporting that enables multi-institutional data sharing.          -  Provide an efficient research infrastructure that facilitates data capture, management            and analysis, enabling teams around the world to conduct research studies in this field.          -  Make shared data open and accessible to clinicians and researchers.
Subjects with Pompe disease who are scheduled to receive a NeuRx Diaphragm pacer (DPS) will       be invited to participate in this study. The following tests will be performed during       participation in the study:          1. Forced expiratory tests          2. Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP)          3. Resting Breathing Pattern          4. Phrenic Nerve Function Evaluation with EMG          5. Severe Respiratory Insufficiency Questionnaire          6. Magnetic stimulation          7. Diaphragm conditioning consisting of:               1. The external stimulator settings               2. The duration of diaphragm stimulation               3. Off-ventilator spontaneous breathing (SB)
Telestroke is a validated intervention that improves the triage and emergent treatment of       acute stroke, specifically related to the use of intravenous thrombolysis. Effective urgent       stroke evaluation and secondary stroke prevention is also essential to decrease the risk of       recurrent stroke, however, there have been no studies to date examining the use of telestroke       to improve delivery of non-emergent inpatient stroke care per American Heart Association       (AHA) guidelines.        Currently, access to stroke specialist expertise is limited resulting in significant       disparities in stroke care. Previous publications have identified that patients in rural       areas may receive sub-optimal stroke care that does not follow accepted guideline       recommendations. Telestroke is a cost-effective mechanism to deliver specialist stroke care       to hospitals that do not have in-person stroke consultation available. The aim of       TELECAST-TIA is to determine whether specialist telestroke inpatient rounding improves       guideline-based TIA treatment when compared to non-specialist transient ischemic attack       treatment.        The primary outcome of TELECAST-TIA is a composite score of 3 categories: diagnostic stroke       evaluation, secondary stroke prevention, and stroke education. Individual components of the       primary outcome were principally derived from AHA stroke guidelines. Additional outcome       measures include individual analyses of the components of the primary outcome as well as the       complication rate, stroke recurrence rate, transfer rate, patient and provider satisfaction       levels, and a cost-analysis. All outcomes will be assessed at 1 year post-implementation,       with data accruement starting after a 3-month lead in phase.
Approximately 8-10 million patients complaining of chest pain present to an Emergency       Department (ED) annually in the United States. These patients are a challenge to healthcare       providers, who are tasked with determining whether these symptoms are due to an acute       coronary syndrome (ACS) or a non-ACS cause. Missing the diagnosis of ACS is associated with       high rates of morbidity, mortality, and malpractice claims. Therefore, to avoid missing the       diagnosis of ACS, patients with chest pain typically undergo extensive evaluations at an       estimated cost of $10-13 billion annually. However, less than 10% of these patients are       ultimately diagnosed with ACS. As the US healthcare system shifts towards a value-based       model, it is clear that the current care patterns for acute chest pain, which fail to focus       health system resources, such as hospitalization and cardiac testing, on patients most likely       to benefit, are not sustainable.        In an effort to improve the quality and value of care for patients with acute chest pain, our       group recently validated a risk stratification pathway, the HEART Pathway, which is designed       to focus cardiac testing and admissions on higher-risk patients, who are more likely to       benefit from testing. The HEART Pathway, which utilizes an easy to use clinical decision aid       (the HEART score) and serial troponin measurement, has been shown to significantly reduce       objective cardiac testing (stress testing and coronary angiography), shorten hospital length       of stay, and increase the early discharge rate from the Emergency Department among patients       with acute chest pain. These important efficiency gains occur without missing ACS and without       increasing return visits to the ED or downstream admissions to the hospital over a 30 day       period.        While the HEART score has been well validated in the ED setting, it has yet to be implemented       in a prehospital setting. Paramedics are often the first providers to evaluate and begin       treating patients with symptoms concerning for ACS. Current pre-hospital risk stratification       is largely based on a combination of ECG results and paramedic gestalt. Since ECGs without       signs of a STEMI are poor predictors of ACS, paramedics often have difficulty distinguishing       high-risk patients from low-risk patients. Therefore, integrating objective risk       stratification tools, such as the HEART score and point-of-care troponin testing, into       Emergency Medical Services (EMS) triage and destination plans represents an opportunity to       improve care. Furthermore, expanding use of the HEART score to paramedics in the pre-hospital       setting is a natural extension of our prior work, especially given the growing sophistication       of mobile integrated healthcare ("community paramedicine") over the last decade. Thus,       multidisciplinary leaders within Emergency Medicine, Cardiology, and Prehospital Medicine       have agreed that a limited/pilot evaluation of the HEART Score with Abbott's i-STAT®       point-of-care (POC) troponin testing in the prehospital setting is needed.        The investigators anticipate that a standardized approach to paramedic risk stratification       using the HEART score with Abbott's i-STAT® POC troponin testing will be feasible and achieve       high accuracy for the detection of ACS. Ultimately the investigators believe this planned       implementation will improve the quality and value of chest pain care. Placing these tools in       the hands of our first responders will identify patients with ACS earlier and speed the       delivery of potentially life-saving care. For example, EMS triage and destination plans       (chest pain treatment and transportation triage and destination plans) could be amended so       that patients with positive POC troponins or high HEART scores could be transported directly       to a hospital with cardiac catheterization capabilities, avoiding delays and costs associated       with inter-facility transfers. However, before EMS triage and destination plans can fully       incorporate the HEART score and POC troponin testing, first the feasibility of such an       implementation must be established by collecting quality surveillance data.        To establish the feasibility and accuracy of HEART score and POC testing in the prehospital       setting the investigators propose a quality surveillance study of a limited implementation of       the HEART score with POC troponin testing. This pilot will include paramedics from three       demographically distinct counties (Forsyth, Surry, and Stokes counties) in North Carolina,       who will begin using the HEART score and i-STAT POC Troponin as part of their risk assessment       for patients with acute chest pain. However, EMS triage and transportation plans will not be       altered based on the HEART score assessment until feasibility and accuracy have been       established. To ensure the feasibility and accuracy of paramedic chest pain risk assessment       the investigators will be performing surveillance of electronic health records (EHR) and       contacting patients by phone (which is a common practice in EMS quality assurance). Quality       surveillance participants (n=500) will be identified retrospectively and quality assurance       data will be collected electronically using EHR (EMS records, and Wake Forest Baptist Health       health records) and via telephone follow-up calls (which are customary in EMS quality       assurance projects).
Clinical background:        Postoperative atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter (POAF) is the most common complication       after cardiac surgery requiring intervention or prolonged hospital stay . Affecting 10-65% of       patients , this arrhythmia is associated with increased mortality, considerable morbidity       including systemic therombo-embolism and hemodynamic deterioration. Often it will prolong the       hospital stay and increase health costs. Notably, the incidences of POAF is increasing       resulting from an increase in the average age and arrhythmic risk factors in patients       undergoing cardiac surgery.        Although a lot of POAFs occur in patients with a history of PAF, there is an important       portion of POAF in patients who have never experienced AF before. In some of these patients       POAF may be the first manifestation of a tendency to fibrillate (that may have been silent       prior to surgery) whereas in others it may be an acute response to the peri-operative stress       that may never recur after the acute phase. A recent study has shown that patients with a       first detected AF episode precipitated by a secondary event (the most common of which was       cardiothoracic surgery) are very likely to have recurrent events. In fact the risk of       recurrence was similar to that of patients with an AF event with an obvious precipitating       factor Current guidelines mainly address the acute management of arrhythmia. Most conclude       that anti-thrombotic therapy is indicated in POAF (IIA) usually if the arrhythmia persists       for at least 48 hours. However this recommendation is based on very limited evidence as there       is no substantial data describing the long term natural history of this complication. POAF       was described as self-terminating but frequently recurrent with a complete resolution within       6-12 weeks . However, this observation was based on electrocardiogram follow-up with no       continuous long term monitoring (ECG holter or loop recorder) and are therefore of limited       validity. Emerging data suggests that AF recurrence rates may be significate ranging up to       24% over 6 years . Still, it is currently unknown how many of the patients presenting with an       acute episode of POAF will develop recurrent events and when, as a result, there are no clear       recommendations regarding the duration of anticoagulantion treatment. The current practice in       cases of POAF of significant duration is to administer anti-coagulation therapy combined with       antiarrhythmic (most often with amiodarone) for 6-12 weeks. The only guideline based       recommendation that is based on poor evidence is to administer OAC to AF patients following       CABG for at least 3 months . Holter ECG is routinely performed prior to the end of this       period and if normal and clinical evaluation is normal the treatment is discontinued, usually       with no additional evaluation.        Technical overview:        This study will be executed using the following devices and services:          -  BioMonitor is a subcutaneous implanted device that automatically detects arrhythmias and            stores electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings. It is implanted in a small subcutaneous            pocket, similar to a pacemaker but without the need for inserting electrodes. It            provides high quality ECG recording and has longevity of 6.4 years. In addition it has            wireless capabilities and may transmit data to an external modem (CardioMessenger) and            though it to an internet based network - the Home-Monitoring.          -  HomeMonitoring is an Internet-based, automatic, remote, monitoring system that uses the            cellular phone network to enable transmissions of recorded data and alerts from the HM            Service Center to a predefined email address, fax or a cellular phone.        Study propose The investigators hypothesize that the intermediate and long term burden of       newly diagnosed POAF is significantly greater than currently described. We further       hypothesize that it may be a marker for affected atria representing a greater risk for       chronic arrhythmia. Therefore, we believe that a substantial group of patients presenting       with POAF will have atrial fibrillation recurrences (paroxysmal, persistent or permanent)       requiring long term anticoagulation We also believe that with the help of ILR we will be able       define a subgroup of POAF patients in whom POAF is related to the acute phase and are not       prone to recurrence nor do they need long term anticoagulation In this pilot study we propose       to use an ILR to diagnose both symptomathic and asymptomatic events of atrial fibrillation in       subjects after cardiac surgery. We intend to define the natural history of post-operative       atrial fibrillation and to identify the predictors for recurrent events.        Study aims:          1. To evaluate the incidence of recurrent AF events, during long term follow-up in patients            presenting with newly diagnosed POAF discharged in sinus rhythm.          2. To identify predictors for the development of recurrent AF events          3. To verify the use of implantable loop recorders (ILRs) as tools in detection of AF and            anticoagulant management in POAF          4. To evaluate rates of mortality and major adverse events (CVA, systemic thromboembolism,            rapid AF requiring hospitalization) among patients presenting with POAF discharged in            sinus rhythm.          5. To identify predictors for mortality and major adverse events.        Methods - general Study design - pilot        • A multicenter, prospective randomized, open label interventional study          -  Participants will be randomized in a ratio of 2:1 to implantation of loop recorder or            usual follow up          -  Participants will be followed for a median of 2 years.          -  Country of primary site - Israel Study population          -  Participants will be recruited from patients admitted to a cardiac surgery ward in            participating medical centers          -  Participants will be recruited during index hospitalization or within a week after            discharge Recruitment & randomization               1. Requirement will begin on the 1st of August 2015               2. Potential participants will receive a comprehensive explanation.               3. All participants will sign an informed consent form               4. A baseline CRF will be filled (see appendix A1)               5. Baseline evaluation a. Medical interview and review of electronic patient file b.                 physical examination c. ECG- 12 lead test at recruitment d. Laboratory test - CBC,                 Chemistry including electrolytes, kidney and liver function               6. Randomization                    1. Will be performed at the time of requirement                    2. Will be carried out by using standard software Device & device implantation             1. Device             a. The1st generation Biomonitor device will be used in this study b. Arrhythmia            detection based on R-R interval analysis c. The device will identify and record the            following rhythms automatically: i. Asystole - R-R interval >5 sec ii. Bradycardia /            sudden rate drop - rate<40 BPM for >20 seconds (options: 5, 10, 15, 25 or 30 sec) OK            iii. Atrial Fibrillation -               1. AF Sensitivity - Medium               2. R-R interval variability - 12.5%               3. Onset/Resolution window - 8/16               4. AF onset intervals - 5               5. AF resolution intervals - 1               6. Confirmation time - 5 minutes               7. AF termination criteria - 5/8intervals iv. High ventricular rates - rate>180 BPM                 for >16 beats d. The device will allow for patient activated recording. e.                 Automatically detected events will be recorded for 40 sec (30 sec pre and 10 sec of                 the events) and 7.5 minutes of patient activated events (7 min pre and 30 sec post                 activation).                  f. The duration of each arrhythmic event will be recorded. g. ECG tracings of each                 type of event will be stored             2. Device implantation               1. ILR will be inserted during index hospitalization               2. Apixaban will we withheld according to EHRA NOAC document as related to renal                 function prior to device implantation and will be resumed 48 hours after it's                 completion               3. For patients on VKA The implantation will be postponed if INR at the day of the                 procedure exceeds 3               4. The device will be implanted in a tight pre-pectoral pocket.               5. Device location will be defined by implanting physician based on signal quality.               6. Prophylactic antibiotic treatment will be given both before and after implantation.                 The antibiotic agents will be selected according the protocol designed for                 pacemaker implantation in the various centers.               7. An implantation CRF will be filled upon completion of procedure (appendix A1)                  Pre-discharge recommendations                  1. Implantation site will be examined by a trained physician 2. All participants                 will undergo a standard echocardiography .Test results will be evaluated by a core                 lab 3. Results of the examination will be noted on CRF                  Discharge recommendations 1. All patients will be discharged on OAC for three                 months (according to ESC revascularization guidelines )             a. Patients with valvular (significant and uncorrected mitral stenosis) disease will be            treated with warfarin b. Patients with no valvular disease will be treated with apixaban            2. These will be stopped after 90 days without AF according to the assigned follow up            method as long as no more than 120 days elapsed since hospital discharge 3. If AF of            more than 5 minutes recurs anticoagulation will be continued active or resumed if            already discontinued.             4. A recommendation for an anti-arrhythmic agent, for duration of a maximum of 6 weeks            will be left to the discretion of the attending physician.             5. Continuation of anti-arrhythmic therapy will be done only in cases of clinical and            symptomatic AF Follow-up               1. Clinical follow-up - Biannual office visits                  a. Participants will be asked to report any relevant symptoms or clinical events                 including hospitalizations, CVA/TIA, events of syncope, pre-syncope, overt atrial                 fibrillation, palpitations or chest discomfort b. Active medical therapy will be                 updated c. All data will be recorded in the clinical follow-up CRF (appendix B1)               2. ECG monitoring                  a. BioMonitor i. The ILR will be interrogated at 1 month intervals ii. The quality                 and integrity of ECG tracings will be evaluated at each visit and the device's                 programing will be updated by the core lab to overcome under-sensing, T-wave                 over-sensing or other misdiagnosis.                  b. Home Monitoring system - optional preferable i. Study participants will be                 supplied with a CardioMessenger unit ii. The BioMonitor will transmit relevant                 event data on a daily basis iii. Continuouss monitoring will be done through the                 Home Monitoring system iv. Event log will be reviewed by the attending physician on                 every two days c. EGC holter i. Participants will undergo ECG holter examination at                 3 and 6 months after discharge d. All data will be recorded in the clinical ECG                 event log CRF (appendix B2)               3. Laboratory follow-up - Routine CBC once every 6 months
Baseline information will be obtained including QoL, 6-minute walk, and echo measurements.       The patient will be randomized to receive a conventionally-placed LV lead or randomized to       receive a magnetically-placed LV lead. The magnetic group will have acute hemodynamics       assessed during the procedure to evaluate the best response of the left ventricle during       pacing. Patients will be followed for 6 months with a re-evaluation of the baseline tests to       assess the change in HF symptoms. Adverse events will also be recorded during the follow-up       period.
nan
The aim of this study is to demonstrate the value of a multiple intervention program in       reducing early readmissions for heat failure in patients hospitalized for cardiac       decompensation.        This work will create an interventional assistance program to structure the exit consultation       in order to optimize treatment, educate patients, ensure the continuity of hospital-city care       and improve compliance (reminders) to reduce re-hospitalizations. This program will be       carried out by using a computer platform allowing the systematization of output documents and       the sending of messages (e-mail / SMS) for making appointments (medical consultations,       biologicals sampling) and perfect therapeutic education.
nan
nan
nan
This is an open-label, pilot study to explore the efficacy of chloroquine in terminating       persistent AF within 2 weeks of drug administration and assess its potential role as a       pharmacological cardioversion agent for the management of AF. Subjects will be followed for 2       weeks from the start of drug administration to study drug termination.
Recent research supports the hypothesis that reducing the amount of pacing in the lower right       chamber of the heart may prevent the progression of congestive heart failure (CHF) in some       implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) patients. CHF refers to symptoms (shortness of       breath, fatigue, fluid overload) caused by decreased pumping action of the heart muscle. The       ICD can be set to use one wire (top or bottom of the heart) or two wires (top and bottom).       Both settings allow the heart to beat more naturally using its own electrical signals. Two       device settings will be compared. Managed ventricular pacing (MVP) will allow the ICD to use       both wires only as necessary. This setting allows the ICD to send electrical signals to the       top and bottom chambers of the heart if needed. The other setting, ventricular pacing (VVI)       will allow the ICD to operate the bottom chamber of the heart if it is needed.
Atrial fibrillation is a common complication of cardiac surgery which is associated with       increased morbidity, length of stay and cost. Efforts to mitigate this problem with beta       blockers and amiodarone have been met with limited success. Observational data suggests that       prophylactic amiodarone has been helpful in decreasing the incidence of AF as well as       increasing its ease of management. The opportunity to use ascorbic acid for AF prophylaxis is       attractive because of its low side effect profile, wide acceptance and low cost.        We have designed a prospective, randomized, controlled trial using a 2 X 2 factorial design       to determine whether prophylactic ascorbic acid alone, ascorbic acid with amiodarone, or       amiodarone alone, when given along with beta blockers will decrease the incidence of       postoperative AF in adult cardiac surgery in all comers as compared with beta blockers alone.        Patients will be randomized into four groups, A, B, C, and D. All groups will receive beta       blockers, Group A will receive beta blockers, ascorbic acid, and amiodarone, Group B will       receive ascorbic acid and Beta blockers, Group C will receive amiodarone and beta blockers       and Group D will receive only beta blockers.        Success of randomization will be assessed by comparing treatment groups with respect to       baseline characteristics, using t-tests or their nonparametric equivalent (as appropriate)       for continuous variables and chisquare tests or Fisher's exact tests for categorical       variables. The primary hypotheses of the effects of ascorbic acid and amiodarone on incidence       of atrial fibrillation will be tested using chisquare tests for differences in proportions.       No adjustment will be made for multiple comparisons since both hypotheses are pre-specified.       We will use exploratory analyses including stratification to assess for the possibility of       effect modification between ascorbic acid and amiodarone. If an interaction is suggested by       these analyses, we will use logistic regression with a cross-product term as a formal       statistical test for interaction.
Patients will be followed 6 months and 1 year after the baseline visit and will be collected       data of antithrombotic therapy, laboratory data, discontinuation rates of antithrombotic       therapy and clinical outcomes.
Approximately 150 subjects will be recruited over a planned recruitment period of 18 months.       Patients will be submitted to ecchocardiogram using Philips Envisor, and electrocardiogram       with Philips Healthcare PageWriter TC30.
Enrolled Subjects will have both a market-released transvenous pacing lead and       investigational StealthTrac Temporary Pacing Lead placed and evaluated. During the placement       procedure, diagnostic echocardiograms will be performed to detect any new pericardial       effusions. Once inserted, the StealthTrac Lead will be used to deliver high rate pacing (160       to 220 BPM) in clinically appropriate Subjects, to demonstrate suitability for use in       transcatheter procedures that require brief periods of temporary pacing. Lead positions will       be documented using fluoroscopic images before the Subject leaves the procedure room. On the       following two days after the procedure, electrical performance will be evaluated in multiple       postures and appropriate pacing and sensing will be confirmed during activity using ECG       Holter monitor recordings. Subjects will also be asked patient-centric questions about their       experience with the StealthTrac Lead throughout the study period. Evaluations will continue       for a minimum of two (2) and a maximum of seven (7) days after the index procedure. Prior to       StealthTrac Lead removal, an X-Ray will be taken to document the final lead position and       diagnostic echocardiography will be performed to (1) detect any latent pericardial effusions       and (2) assess differences in cardiac function with intrinsic conduction and while pacing. A       final follow-up will be performed 25-30 days after removal to identify any latent adverse       events before the Subject exits the study.
Two different randomization group have been defined and patients with obstructive prosthetic       valve thrombosis are included in each group randomly. In the first arm, thrombolytic therapy       (TT) is performed to the patients with obstructive prosthetic valve thrombosis. The TT       regimen depends on the functional status of the patient. In patients with NYHA class III-IV       dyspnea low dose, relatively faster TT regimen (25 mg tPA/6 hours) is performed. In patients       with NYHA class I-II dyspnea TT with low dose and ultra slow infusion of tPA (25 mg tPA/25       hours) is performed. During TT, patients are followed up with transesophageal       echocardiography in every 24 hours. In the second arm, redo valve surgery is performed for       obstructive valve thrombosis. This multicenter study is conducted in Cardiology and       Cardiovascular Surgery Departments of Kosuyolu Kartal Heart Training and Research Hospital,       Istanbul, Turkey, Siyami Ersek Heart Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey, Ankara       Heart Training and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey, İzmir Atatürk Heart Training and       Research Hospital, İzmir, Turkey, Erzurum Atatürk University Faculty of Medicine, Erzurum,       Turkey, Diyarbakır Dicle University Faculty of Medicine, Diyarbakır, Turkey and Kars Kafkas       University Faculty of Medicine, Kars, Turkey. Informed consent is taken from all patients.
At your first visit you will be asked to do the following.          -  Sign this informed consent document.          -  Questionnaire: You will be asked to complete a questionnaire about your family history            of neurological diseases and current and past physical thinking activities.          -  Interview: The interview will be performed by the study coordinator who is a member of            the research team. It will take about 20-30 minutes to complete. You will be asked to            answer questions about your general health, surgeries, medications, and your memory and            thinking skills.          -  Memory Interview: You will have an evaluation of your memory and thinking skills. You            will answer questions and perform tasks that evaluate various thinking abilities such as            concentration, memory, reasoning, and learning.          -  Blood draw: Have a sample of blood drawn (4.2-5 tablespoons) for clinical and research            tests.          -  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of your brain (optional): If you agree to participate,            you will be asked to have MR imaging of your brain.          -  Echocardiogram: You will be asked to have an echocardiogram of your heart.          -  Follow-up visit in 2-3 years: You will be asked to return to Mayo for your second study            visit in 2-3 years. At this visit, you will be asked to complete the same memory and            thinking tests described for the first visit. You will also be asked to repeat the            echocardiogram.
This is an international, multicenter, single arm, prospective, Early Feasibility Clinical       Study to evaluate the safety and performance of the Neovasc Tiara Mitral Valve System in       subjects with symptomatic severe mitral regurgitation requiring mitral valve replacement who       are at high risk for open chest surgery.        A maximum of 30 subjects will be implanted in this study at a maximum of 10 sites. A maximum       of 15 subjects will be implanted in the United States.        Subjects satisfying the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria will be enrolled to receive       the Neovasc Tiara Mitral Transcatheter Heart Valve with the Tiara Delivery System via a       transcatheter mitral valve replacement (TMVR) procedure.
In Italy, a nation-wide observational study endorsed by the Superior Institute of Health has       been previously launched in order to evaluate appropriateness and effectiveness of aortic       valve replacement (AVR) and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) procedures: the       OBservational Study of Effectiveness of AVR-TAVI procedures for severe Aortic steNosis       Treatment (OBSERVANT). The present study was designed to complement the national survey on       TAVI and AVR procedures including data about costs, cognitive functions and quality of life       after these procedures. This integrated framework may help defining the relevance of baseline       psychological, emotional and cognitive factors on the outcomes associated to the different       treatment modalities and, on the other hand, should enable accurate evaluation of the impact       of each kind of treatment on quality of life and neuropsychological functions. These elements       could also represent relevant keys to decision-making to the different therapeutic       strategies. In addition, we aim to ascertain costs associated to each of the above mentioned       strategies of treatment, including costs of the index hospitalization and follow-up costs.       Costs estimate, combined to the integrated physical and mental health status outcome for each       treatment modality, may represent the background for subsequent cost-effectiveness analyses.        All consecutive patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation or aortic valve       replacement (if age ≥ 80 years or Logistic Euroscore ≥ 15%) for aortic stenosis at       participating centers during the period of enrollment will be included in the registry, after       release of written informed consent. Allocation of patients to different treatment groups       will be performed jointly by a cardiologist and a cardiac surgeon on the basis of a complete       clinical framework, independently from the present study and in accordance with available       guidelines. Type of treatment (for example, access site for TAVI, type of prosthesis…) will       be decided by the physicians based on local clinical practice and general principles of good       clinical practice.        The administration of neurocognitive and quality of life questionnaires will be performed       before the procedure and after 3 months and 1 year by trained personnel following standard       operation procedures defined by a coordinating unit. A telephone and web-based support for       operators will be available throughout the entire duration of the study. A common methodology       for data collection and analysis is defined to guarantee data reliability and homogeneity of       assessments among the participating units. The cost analysis will be coordinated by the       Regional Healthcare and Social Agency of the Emilia Romagna Region.        Data will be collected in a web-based database (OBSERVANT) through dedicated Case Records       Forms and a final database will be built by merging this database with a separate database       for costs and Hospital Discharge Records and Mortality Registry databases.
The EVEREST II HRR is a single-arm prospective, multicenter clinical trial enrolling high       surgical risk patients of the EVEREST II study (NCT00209274).        Patients were considered high surgical risk if either their Society of Thoracic Surgery (STS)       predicted operative mortality risk was ≥ 12%, or the surgeon investigator determined the       patient to be high risk (≥ 12% predicted operative mortality risk) due to the presence of, at       a minimum, one of the following pre-specified risk factors:          -  Porcelain aorta or mobile ascending aortic atheroma          -  Post-radiation mediastinum          -  Previous mediastinitis          -  Functional MR with ejection fraction (EF) < 40%          -  Over 75 years old with EF < 40%          -  Prior re-operation with patent grafts          -  Two or more prior chest surgeries          -  Hepatic cirrhosis          -  Three or more of the following STS high risk factors:             i. Creatinine > 2.5 mg/dL ii. Prior chest surgery iii. Age over 75 iv. EF < 35%        Upon completion of enrollment in the HRR, a process was initiated to ensure patient consent       to participate in a Concurrent Control (CC) group was in place. Patients were identified to       determine survival through 12 months with current standard of care treatment.CC patients were       derived from a cohort of patients screened for enrollment in the HRR,yet did not enroll. All       patients had moderate-to-severe (3+) or severe (4+) MR based on transthoracic       echocardiography (TTE). To be considered eligible for inclusion in the CC group, the patient       had to be classified as high surgical risk using the same criteria used for the HRR. Upon       follow-up with the clinical sites, it was determined that some of the initially identified       patients with moderate-to-severe (3+) or severe (4+) MR met the criteria for high surgical       risk. Of these patients, some were not included due to; lack of Institutional Review Board       (IRB) approval at the site, lack of informed consent and unable to be contacted. The       remaining patients make up the CC group.
Postoperative delirium (PD) is a common problem in cardiac surgical patients. Its incidence       varies among studies and can reach up to 50% of the patients. PD is associated with increased       morbidity and mortality. Its occurrence is the resultant between the predisposing factors and       the precipitating factors. Age seems to be a significant predisposing factor. In this regard       the pathophysiology of PD is not yet fully understood. There are several hypothetical       mechanisms for the development of PD. The first hypothesis is cerebral ischemia and BBB       breakdown. The second hypothesis is neuro-inflammation. Peripheral pro-inflammatory mediators       especially released during surgery would interact with the brain. Otherwise there is the       problem of sleep deprivation/fragmentation in patients admitted to the hospital.        Dexmedetomidine is a potent and more selective alpha2-adrenergic receptor than clonidine.       Studies have demonstrated that it has neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions.        Numerous studies including trials in cardiac surgery have shown a decreased incidence of       delirium when Dexmedetomidine was used as sedative in the ICU compared with other sedatives       acting on the GABA receptors. However, in these studies high doses of Dexmedetomidine were       used for periods up to 24h. Dexmedetomidine was started in the ICU and was not compared in a       double-blind fashion with placebo. In a recent randomized double-blind placebo-controlled       trial a very low dose of Dexmedetomidine decreased the occurrence of PD when compared to       placebo. However this study was performed in non-cardiac patients. Moreover the patients were       included after their arrival in the ICU, which means that those patients who were intubated       at their arrival in the ICU were not included. And again the study medication was only       started after arrival in the ICU.        The aim of this study is to elucidate whether the administration of Dexmedetomidine at a low       dose would decrease the incidence of PD in elderly patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The       hypothesis is that Dexmedetomidine at low doses, by only stimulating the alpha2A       adrenoceptors,would have neuroprotective affects ans as such decrease the incidence of PD.       Dexmedetomidine would also have anti-inflammatory effects and effects on the quality of       sleep. Both mechanisms would play a role in the pathophysiology of PD.
This study aims to examine the optimal anticoagulation/antiplatelet regimen in low risk       patients undergoing TAVR. The prospective randomized controlled arm of this study will assess       the utility of short-term oral anticoagulation with warfarin compared to antiplatelet therapy       alone after TAVR in low risk patients to reduce the incidence of structural valve       deterioration manifest as clinical events, increased aortic valve gradients or transvalvular       regurgitation, or subclinical leaflet thrombosis. Low risk subjects with symptomatic severe       aortic stenosis will be enrolled to undergo TAVR. Following TAVR, subjects will be randomized       to receive warfarin plus low dose Aspirin or low dose Aspirin monotherapy for 30-45 days.       Subjects with other indications for anticoagulation (e.g. AF, DVT or PE) will not be       randomized and instead will be followed in a separate registry arm. Baseline demographic,       clinical, non-invasive imaging (echocardiography and CT), TAVR procedural details, clinical       follow up data will be prospectively collected for all subjects. Echocardiography and       contrast-enhanced 4D cardiac CT will be performed in all subjects between 30-45 days after       TAVR to evaluate for evidence of structural valve deterioration.        This multicenter prospective randomized study will enroll 200 consecutive low risk subjects       with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis into the treatment arms of the study. Up to 100       additional subjects with a pre-existing indication for anticoagulation (e.g. atrial       fibrillation, deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) or who are not eligible for       randomization after TAVR due to development of a new indication for anticoagulation will be       enrolled into the registry arm of the study.        Inclusion of this registry arm will ensure that the secondary objective pooled analysis of       patient level data from this study and the Low Risk TAVR (LRT) study, truly represents an       all-comers cohort of low risk patients undergoing TAVR, and does not exclude a significant       subgroup.
nan
Prospective, single-arm, single-center clinical evaluation of transcatheter mitral valve       intervention in subjects with mitral valve disease who are treated per standard of care and       who have been determined by the local heart team as appropriate for interventional treatment.       Eligible subjects will be treated by transcatheter mitral valve repair or transcatheter       mitral valve replacement.        This single-arm registry will provide valuable new information regarding use of multiple       mitral valve interventional devices and evaluate the safety and effectiveness of       transcatheter mitral valve intervention in Chinese population with mitral valve disease.
1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become the            standard of care in elderly patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis and            increased surgical risks due to advanced age and multiple comorbidity(2-4). However, in            contrast to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), paravalvular leakage after TAVI is            fairly common. More than moderate paravalvular leakage is associated with intermediate            and long-term morbidity and mortality(5).             Since the introduction of TAVI, implantation- and device technology have improved            significantly. Nevertheless, mild paravalvular leakage remains a common finding after            implantation of new generation devices. Conflicting evidence exists regarding the impact            of mild versus none to trivial paravalvular leakage on mortality and morbidity. Several            factors might be of influence on these conflicting results. Patients with left            ventricular hypertrophy and no previous aortic regurgitation might experience rapidly            rising end-diastolic pressures resulting in heart failure even at small regurgitant            volumes as seen with mild paravalvular leakage (6-9). Moreover, paravalvular leakage            might have greater impact on survival in patients with impaired left ventricular            function as compared to patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction(10).             Furthermore, studies have used different definitions of paravalvular leakage, assessed            paravalvular leakage at different time intervals and used different prostheses. Since            paravalvular leakage might decrease over time in self- expandable TAVI devices, this            potentially influenced outcomes(11). The widely used VARC-2 criteria for paravalvular            leakage grading comprise echocardiographic measurements only(1). Especially quantitative            assessment of paravalvular leakage in the intermediate strata (mild-moderate) using            echocardiography (TTE) remains difficult. TAVI under conscious sedation or local            anesthesia more or less preclude the use of peri-operative trans esophageal            echocardiography (TEE). TTE analysis and grading of paravalvular leakage is limited by            patient factors such as pulmonary disease, patient habitus and prior cardio-thoracic            surgery. Moreover, TTE has been shown to underestimate paravalvular leakage as compared            to cardiac MRI(12-14). However,the presence of clinical relevant paravalvular leakage            necessitates post-dilatation; therefore grading of paravalvular leakage preferably            should be done intra-operatively.             Hemodynamic parameters have been shown to be of great value in grading paravalvular            leakage post implantation(15-18). These objective parameters are easily obtained during            TAVI and have been shown to have prognostic relevance. All of these parameters are a            function of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP). For instance, diastolic            delta (DD), defined as the gradient between diastolic aortic pressure and LVEDP, ≤18            millimetres of mercury (mmHg) was associated with adverse prognosis(15). Heart rate            adjusted diastolic delta (HR-DD) (HR-DD= [DD/heartrate] *80) <25 mmHg/beats per minute            (BPM) was associated with mortality at 1 year in a retrospective study(16). Combined            with angiography and (transesophageal) echocardiography, it was associated with impaired            clinical outcome in balloon-expandable bioprostheses (16, 17). Furthermore, the aortic            regurgitation index (ARI), defined as the ratio of the diastolic delta to systolic            aortic pressure (Aortic regurgitation index = (DD/Aortic pressure systolic)*100) >25            combined with angiographic or echocardiographic assessment of paravalvular leakage had a            negative predictive value of 95%-100% for the occurrence of more than mild paravalvular            leakage. ARI <25 was associated with 1 year mortality, even after adjustment for            paravalvular leakage severity(18-20). However, interpretation of ARI is challenging;            bradycardia might lead to an ARI <25 without the presence of relevant paravalvular            leakage. Determination of ARI should therefore be performed at a heart rate between            60-80 BPM and preferably over several cycles, especially when measured during atrial            fibrillation or extrasystoles.             Both echocardiographic and hemodynamic measures provide an estimation of the amount of            paravalvular leak. In contrast to echocardiography, MRI provides accurate quantification            of paravalvular leakage volume. In this study the investigators want to assess the            contributive value of hemodynamic indices of paravalvular leakage based on paravalvular            leakage volume measured by means of cardiac MRI and to assess its association with            impaired clinical outcomes during 5 year follow-up.          2. OBJECTIVES 2.1 Primary Objective To assess per-procedural hemodynamic indices of            paravalvular leakage and to relate these to paravalvular leakage as quantified by            cardiac MRI.             2.2 Secondary Objectives To exploratory assess short- and long-term outcomes in patients            with different severity of paravalvular leakage          3. STUDY DESIGN The study is designed as a single center, investigator-initiated, clinical            trial.             In case patients want to participate there is no change of standard clinical care. After            TAVI, study participants will receive additional cardiac MRI within 1 month. Subsequent            3-month and 1-year out-patient clinical follow-up will be performed. Telephone follow-up            will be performed after 2,3,4 and 5 years. The end of the study is defined as the day            when the last patient completes her/his last visit planned in the protocol.          4. STUDY POPULATION 4.1 Population (base) Patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve            stenosis allocated to TAVI by a dedicated heart team will be screened for potential            participation. The definition of severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis is defined in            the inclusion criteria.
Background:        Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established and valuable treatment       option for patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis and at increased risk for       surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR). The use of TAVI is rapidly expanding worldwide and       the indications for TAVI are widening into lower risk populations in view of favorable       outcomes among high and intermediate risk patients. Many novel devices are currently       developed or established devices undergo design reiterations to address limitations, such as       vascular access complications, paravalvular regurgitation, and atrio-ventricular conductance       disturbances. However, device comparisons by use of randomized trials are scarce in       particular for newer generation transcatheter valves.        The Symetis ACURATE neo/TF, a self-expandable transcatheter valve delivered via transfemoral       access, gained Conformité Européenne (CE) marking in September 2014 after showing favorable       procedural and short term results. The SCOPE I trial will compare its performance to the       balloon-expandable Edwards SAPIEN 3, a widely used and well-established transcatheter heart       valve of the second generation, in a randomized fashion.        Objectives:        The primary objective is the comparison of the Symetis ACURATE neo/TF to the Edwards SAPIEN 3       transcatheter aortic bioprosthesis with regard to early safety and clinical efficacy at 30       days. Secondary objectives involve the comparison between the two devices with regard to       secondary clinical and echocardiographic endpoints at 30 days, 1 year and 3 years.        Methods:        Sample Size: Based on an anticipated incidence proportion of 22% for the primary       non-hierarchical composite endpoint at 30 days in both treatment arms, a non-inferiority       margin of 7.7%, a power of 80%, a one-tailed significance level of α = 0.05, and a low       attrition rate, the total required sample size amounts to 730 patients.        Design: Patients will be allocated to the Symetis ACURATE neo/TF or the Edwards SAPIEN 3       bioprosthesis at a 1:1 ratio by means of a randomly permuted block randomisation stratified       on study center and Society of Thoracic Surgeons' predicted risk of mortality score       (STS-PROM) strata (< 3%, ≥ 3 to < 8%, ≥ 8%).        Analysis: Estimates of the risk-differences between the two treatment arms with regard to the       primary endpoint will be pooled over the predefined STS-PROM strata by means of the       Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel method and Wald-type confidence limits will be calculated using the       Sato variance estimator. The non-inferiority assumption will be tested at a one-sided       significance level with a type I error rate (α) = 0.05. The analysis of the primary composite       endpoint will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat (ITT) and the per protocol       (PP) principle and non-inferiority should be claimed only if met by both.        In case non-inferiority is established, a superiority analysis will be performed using a       two-tailed significance level with a type I error rate of α = 0.05. Further secondary       analyses will evaluate between group differences in relation to demographic, clinical,       procedural, functional and imaging characteristics. Pre-specified subgroup analyses will be       conducted by use of appropriate interaction tests contrasting categories of sex, STS-PROM       score (< 3%, ≥ 3 to < 8%, ≥ 8%), left ventricular ejection fraction (< 50% vs. ≥ 50%), and       native aortic valve eccentricity index (≤ 0.25 vs. > 0.25).
nan
nan
This pilot study aims to demonstrate whether remote ischaemic preconditioning (RIC),       delivered as a nonpharmacological treatment via repeated inflations and deflations of a limb       blood pressure cuff, can reduce subclinical myocardial injury from anthracycline       chemotherapy. Chemotherapy cardiotoxicity is the dose limiting constraint in anthracycline       chemotherapy regimens, and conventional drug treatments to prevent and treat it are limited       by important interactions with blood pressure, kidney function or bone marrow function. The       lifetime cancer risk is between 1 in 2 and 1 in 3 in the general population. Cancer treatment       and survival has improved steadily 50% of patients now survive their initial cancer       diagnosis, but approximately 25 to 50% of survivors will have abnormal cardiac function over       the next twenty years. Historically, anthracycline chemotherapy dosing has been stratified to       limit the incidence of clinical heart failure to around 5%. More recent studies have reported       at least one third of anthracycline chemotherapy patients demonstrate a significant rise in       Troponin levels as a blood biomarker of subclinical myocardial injury as well as documented       evidence of biomarker rise even after a single cycle of chemotherapy, and thus the absolute       threshold for myocardial injury may be lower and thus more prevalent than these conservative       figures.        In standard dosing regimens, chemotherapy may be delayed or suspended in cancer patients       based on the simplified measure of ejection fraction (EF) as a measure of cardiac systolic       function. Conventional heart failure treatments such as betablockers or ACE inhibitors are       usually prescribed only after a significant fall in EF, even though myocardial injury occurs       long before this imprecise measurement changes. RIC has been shown to reduce myocardial       injury and improve outcomes in elective and emergency percutaneous coronary intervention       (PCI) and elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). The common biochemical       pathways in ischaemia reperfusion and anthracycline-induced cardiac myocyte injury suggest       that RIC may be an unexplored nonpharmacological treatment to reduce myocardial injury for       cancer patients.        This pilot study aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of RIC as an elegant noninvasive,       nonmedicinal treatment to reduce myocardial injury in cancer patients, and therefore poses no       significant ethical issues. RIC is known to be a safe intervention with no known significant       adverse effects. Some patients have reported mild discomfort during cuff inflation. A small       number have experienced minor skin bruising at the cuff site which is transient. There are no       known long term adverse effects of RIC,        Recruitment Patients will be identified by their usual oncology team, and referred to the       cardiology team based solely on known inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will ensure       this process is free from undue influence.        The benefits of the study include an increase in the scientific understanding of how RIC may       lead to a reduction in myocardial injury, as well as longitudinal documentation of myocardial       injury in the form of blood biomarkers, ECG changes, metabolic changes, and novel imaging       markers in cancer patients undergoing a common form of chemotherapy.
nan
The FlexNav European Union (EU) study will be conducted as a prospective, multi-center,       single-arm investigational study.        High or extreme risk patients with symptomatic, severe native aortic stenosis who are       determined by an independent subject selection committee to meet eligibility criteria for       Portico™ Transcatheter Aortic Heart Valve implantation via a transfemoral access approach       will undergo a Portico valve implant using the next-generation FlexNav Delivery System.        Subject data will be collected at screening, baseline, pre-procedure, peri-procedure,       post-procedure, discharge, 30 days, 6 months and 1-year from the index procedure.
Atrial fibrillation is a major health problem.Despite adequate treatment of underlying heart       disease, rhythm control is unsuccessful in almost half of patients, also in patients with       lone atrial fibrillation.If patients remain highly symptomatic, a non-pharmacological       approach may be considered including pulmonary vein isolation and Cox maze III surgery. Maze       III surgery has high succes rates, however it includes major cardiac surgery with substantial       risk of complications. New surgical strategies for symptomatic lone atrial fibrillation focus       on minimal invasive off-pump procedures omitting cardiopulmonary bypass (and thus lowering       the complication rate), while taking advantage of an easier approach to the ablation site and       a shorter procedure time. Epicardial surgical ablation isolating pulmonary veins by high       intensity focused ultrasound performed off-pump by Video Assisted Thoracic Surgery (VATS)may       be a promising treatment option. In this pilot study, we aim to study the feasibility of this       new surgical ablation approach in patients with lone atrial fibrillation.
The del Nido cardioplegia was developed by Pedro del Nido and his team at the University of       Pittsburgh in 1990s. It was primarily designed for children and it has been used in pediatric       cardiac surgery in Boston's Children Hospital since 1994.        There are few studies regarding the del Nido cardioplegia. A prospective, randomized trial       was designed to determine the efficiency of the del Nido cardioplegia when compared to       multidose cold blood cardioplegia in cardiac procedures with short and moderate cross-clamp       times.        For the analysis of two cardioprotection protocols, it is essential to compare groups equal       in terms of the surgery and perioperative care, with the same surgical risk and cross-clamp       time. The research required elimination of all the unnecessary variables.        The patients undergoing aortic valve replacement procedure were selected as a study       population. A group of 150 patients will be randomized either into del Nido cardioprotection       protocol (75 participants) or into the cold blood cardioplegia protocol (75 participants).        The intraoperative and perioperative outcomes of using each solution will be presented and       compared (see the endpoints).
In this International multi-center prospective observational study, 250 patients with severe       symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) and eligibility for transfemoral TAVI with ACURATE Neo       Bioprosthesis, will be pre-procedurally selected for participation in an early discharge       protocol in which patients are discharged within 48 hours after uncomplicated TAVI.
BACKGROUND: Acquired aortic valve stenosis (AS) is the most common heart valve disease in the       Western World with a prevalence of 2-7% at the age of >65 years. If untreated, it may lead to       heart failure and death. Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) until recent years has been       the definitive treatment for patients with severe symptomatic AS. A less invasive       transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has been developed and has been a treatment of       choice mostly for elderly high risk or inoperable patients. As TAVR technology is       continuously evolving and improving, it may be anticipated that it will become a valuable       alternative - and even the preferred choice of treatment - for younger, low-risk patients       with severe aortic valve stenosis in the near future. However, to date, there is no clinical       evidence that supports this hypothesis.        AIM: The purpose of the study is to compare TAVR and SAVR with regard to the intra- and       post-procedural morbidity and mortality rate, hospitalization length, functional capacity,       quality of life, and valvular prosthesis function in younger, low risk patients with severe       AS, scheduled for aortic valve replacement.        POPULATION: Younger low risk patients with severe aortic valve stenosis, which are scheduled       for aortic valve replacement using a bioprosthesis. Subjects fulfilling the inclusion       criteria, not having any exclusion criteria, and consenting to the trial will be randomized       1:1 to TAVR or SAVR with 496 patients in each group.        DESIGN: The study is a randomized clinical multicenter trial. Central randomization with       variable block size and stratification by gender and coronary comorbidity will be used. An       independent event committee blinded to treatment allocation will adjudicate safety endpoints.       Interim analysis is planned after the first 20 events included in the primary end-point       (all-cause mortality, stroke or myocardial infarction).        INTERVENTIONS:        TAVR: Any CE-Mark approved transcatheter aortic bioprosthesis may be used in the study, and       the choice is at the discretion of the local TAVR team. The transfemoral TAVR procedure may       be performed under general anaesthesia, local anaesthesia/conscious sedation, or local       anesthesia. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) can be performed up to 30 days prior to       TAVR or as a hybrid procedure.        SAVR: The surgical SAVR technique follows standard protocol of the local department of       cardio-thoracic surgery. The operation is performed under general anesthesia, which follows       standard protocol of the department of anesthesiology. A commercial available surgical aortic       bioprosthesis at the surgeons discretion will be implanted. Concomitant coronary artery       bypass graft (CABG) surgery may be performed.        END POINTS: The primary endpoint is the composite rate of all-cause mortality death,       myocardial infarction and stroke within one year after the procedure (VARC-2 defintions).       Secondary endpoints are listed below. Follow-up will be performed after 30 days, 3 months, 1       year and yearly thereafter for a minimum of 5 years.
nan
The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of transcatheter aortic       valve implantation (TAVI) in septuagenarians with severe, symptomatic Aortic Stenosis (AS)       and risk factors for adverse surgical outcomes not captured by the traditional risk scores       and therefore of intermediate surgical risk.        The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate device success of TAVI with the Evolut R       and Evolut Pro systems in septuagenarians with risk factors for adverse surgical outcomes not       captured by the traditional risk scores and therefore of intermediate surgical risk.        The secondary objective is to assess early safety (at 30 days) and clinical efficacy (after       30 days) of the TAVI procedure.        Exploratory objective: comparative health economics in septuagenarians with symptomatic       severe aortic stenosis and intermediate surgical risk treated with Transcatheter Aortic Valve       Implantation (TAVI) vs Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement (SAVR) (matched historic cohort)
Prospective, multicenter, randomized trial, intended to compare three prophylactic strategies       of atrial fibrillation in patients with coronary artery disease and without history of atrial       fibrillation.        The study includes 4 groups of patients:        Group I (conventional CABG)        Group II (CABG + pulmonary veins isolation). Concomitant CABG and epicardial bipolar       radiofrequency pulmonary veins isolation.        Group III (CABG+ pulmonary veins isolation + amiodarone). Concomitant CABG and epicardial       bipolar radiofrequency pulmonary veins ablation with administration of amiodarone in       postoperative periode.        Group IV (CABG+ amiodarone). Conventional CABG with administration of amiodarone in       postoperative periode.
The study is a non-randomized open-label Phase I clinical trial to characterize the safety       and toxicity associated with infusion of a recombinant adeno-associated serotype 9 (rAAV9)       capsid containing the human lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 isoform B (LAMP2B)       transgene (investigational product (IP), RP-A501) in male patients with Danon Disease (DD).        During the course of the study, approximately 7-10 male subjects age 8 and over will receive       a single intravenous (IV) infusion of the IP. Prior to infusion of IP, rituximab and       sirolimus will be administered prophylactically.        All patients are planned to be followed for 36 months after investigational product       administration. After the end of the follow-up period, patients will enter a Long-Term       Follow-Up (LTFU) study enabling follow-up for an additional 2 to 5 years post-IP       administration.        The study will also enable an initial evaluation of whether or not the IP results in       cardiomyocyte and skeletal muscle transduction and gene expression and preliminary assessment       of the extent of cardiomyocyte and histologic correction. Additionally, a preliminary       evaluation of clinical stabilization following infusion will also be made.
Transcatheter Aortic Valve System (Chengdu Silara Medtech Inc. ,Chengdu, China) will be used       for this study.
3D imaging and rapid prototyping 3D printing technology have advanced to the point where it       is feasible to marry the two to produce a patient-matched and accurate 3D model of congenital       heart defects. The production of a 3D model of the heart may be particularly useful in       anticipation of surgery such that the operator can plan and visualize the surgery prior to       the surgical date with a physical heart he or she can manipulate in their hands.        Preliminary studies demonstrate potential for clinical impact of 3D models on patient care       and patient outcomes. 3D models have long been shown to enhance education and communication       of anatomy. In 2008 Kim et al reviewed 3D printed models as an emerging technology in       management of congenital heart disease, and also suggests that physical models may also help       enhance patients and physicians' understanding of congenital heart disease. Our group has       also published on the clinical and educational value of these 3D heart models. To date, no       systematic trial identifying the value of 3D models on procedural planning has been       published.
nan
To monitor and review device performance and outcomes of the SAPIEN 3 Ultra System in       subjects with symptomatic, severe, calcific aortic stenosis.
This study is connected with Asian TAVR registry(NCT02308150). Some subjects from Asian TAVR       registry continue 10 years follow-up on this TP-TAVR registry.
Objective:        Illicit drug use is a growing issue in Europe. In France, the prevalence of the illicit use       of any drug is 11.4% of the population, ahead of Italy (10.6%), the United Kingdom (8.7%) and       Germany (7.8%).        Cardiovascular complications are one of the main causes of death due to psychoactive drug use       with more than 100,000 deaths per year are due to psychoactive drug use in France. Although       the use of illicit drugs may be involved in several acute cardiac events in patients admitted       to intensive cardiac care units (CCU), its prevalence in patients hospitalized in CCU is       unknown. Interestingly, the current guidelines recommend only a declarative survey to       investigate psychoactive drug use but no systematic urine or plasma screening. However, the       rate of underreporting of these illegal substances remains high. To our knowledge, no study       has ever consecutively assessed the prevalence of psychoactive drug use using systematic       urine or plasma screening at the time of CCU admission. Because illicit drug use is a       potential cardiovascular risk factor, accurate drug screening may initiate addictology       management, modify the treatment and improve patient prognosis after a cardiovascular event.        The aim of the prospective ADDICT-CCU study is to assess the prevalence of illicit drug use       in consecutive patients hospitalized in intensive cardiac care units by urine drug assay.        Study population:        All consecutive patients over 18 years admitted to the CCU during a 3 week recruitment period       in 40 centers. The main exclusion criteria will be hospitalization for a planned       interventional procedure, dementia, or hospitalization for more than 24 hours at any hospital       facility before admission to the CCU. Informed consent will be obtained from all       participants.        Design:        The investigators will conduct a multicentre cohort study with a prospective enrolment of all       consecutive patients admitted to the CCU to assess the prevalence of psychoactive drug use in       40 centers throughout France. Anonymized data supporting the findings of this study will be       collected using CleanwebTM software.        Outcome Measures:        The primary outcome will be the prevalence of at least one illicit drug among all consecutive       patients hospitalized in the CCU.        The following psychoactive drugs will be evaluated for all consecutive patients by urine drug       assay (NarcoCheck®, Kappa City Biotech SAS, Montluçon, France) within two hours of admission       to the CCU: i) cannabinoids (tetrahydrocannabinol [THC]), including cannabis and hashish; ii)       cocaine and metabolites, including cocaine and crack; iii) amphetamines; iv) MDMA; and v)       heroin and other opioids.        In addition to the analysis of illicit drug use, the investigators will also use the       NarcoCheck® urine drug assay to evaluate the associated use of the following psychoactive       drugs: barbiturates, benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressant drugs, methadone and       buprenorphine. Tobacco consumption will also be evaluated for each patient using a       questionnaire with three choices: "never smoked," "smoking cessation" specifying the number       of years, or "active smoking." Active smoking will also be systematically investigated in all       patients using a standardized exhaled carbon monoxide (CO) measurement with a CO-Check Pro       device (Bedfont Scientific Ltd, Kent, UK) on arrival, with a measure of > 3 parts per million       (ppm) signifying active smoking. Every patient will be provided with relevant instructions       regarding the urine drug assay and exhaled CO measurement, and trained investigators will       conduct the tests.        Regarding the secondary outcomes, participants will be followed at 6 months of follow-up to       assess the occurrence of cardiovascular events.
All TAVR and SAVR cases will be enrolled retrospectively and prospectively.        This registry includes sub group analysis named STRATEGY AS(Role of Sarcopenia and frailTy in       pRedicting outcomes After TranscathEter or surGical aortic valve replacement in elderlY       patients with Aortic Stenosis: A prospective cohort study). For this sub group analysis, all       enrolled subjects will have following tests : EQ-5D, KCCQ-12(Kansas City Cardiomyopathy       Questionnaire), ADL(Activities of daily living), IADL(Instrumental. Activities of Daily       Living), Nagi & Rosow-Breslau self-reported items, Previous fall events since 6 months       (initial) or last visit(F/U), IPAQ(The International Physical Activity Questionnaires),       Social frailty screening, CES-D(Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale),       MNA-SF(Mini Nutritional Assessment - Short Form),SPPB score (Short Physical Performance       Battery, usual gait speed, balance, chairstand), Multi-task gait test (counting7, animal,       motor, motor&counting7), Grip strength, Bioimpedance analysis, Muscle tone at thigh and calf,       UEF (Upper extremities function).
After having signed informed consent (Day 1-3), eligible subjects who have successfully       received first RA-CABG surgery (Day 0) will be screened for enrollment. All subjects (150       patients) will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio into 3 groups. Group A will receive oral       Nicorandil (5mg tid) monotherapy; Group B will receive oral Diltiazem (180mg qd) monotherapy;       and Group C will receive Isosorbide Mononitrate (50mg qd) monotherapy. Three groups will       continue intervention treatment for 168 days (24 weeks) after RA-CABG surgery. All subjects       will receive follow-up visits (clinic visit or phone visit) at Day 7, 28, 84, and 168.        All subjects will receive first CCTA (or CAG) to evaluate the graft outcome at Day 7 and       second CCTA (or CAG) to evaluate the graft outcome at Day 168 after RA-CABG surgery. And all       subjects will be evaluated angina relief based on the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS)       angina grading and the Seattle Angina Questionnaire. And the time to first major adverse       cardiovascular event (MACE), which include all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke       and unplanned revascularization, will be collected. And other safety outcomes will be       evaluated, including the rate of hypotension, the proportion of concomitant medications with       ACEI/ARB/ARNI drugs and proportion of SAEs and concerned AEs.
Background: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is usually proposed to patients with       aortic stenosis (AS) before TransAortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) when significant coronary       stenosis is detected on preprocedural coronary angiography. However, the benefit of a       systematic revascularisation is unknown and may have specific complications in elderly and       frail patients.        Aims: The investigators proposed a strategy of selected revascularization guided on       myocardial ischemia detection after the TAVI procedure by using single photon emission       computed tomography (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging.        Methods: This prospective open label clinical trial will include 71 consecutive patients with       significant coronary artery disease (CAD) defined by one or more significant coronary       stenosis in patients admitted for TAVI. Myocardial SPECT imaging will be performed in all       patients at 1-month follow-up after the TAVI procedure. Targeted PCI will be performed only       in patients with significant related ischemia (> 10 % myocardial perfusion defect).        The primary outcome criterion is a composite criterion of feasibility and safety including       all causes of death, stroke, major bleedings, major vascular complications, per procedural       myocardial infarction, coronary revascularization or rehospitalisation for cardiac cause at 6       month follow-up.        Hypothesis: An alternative management of CAD guided by significant myocardial ischemia       detection after TAVI could reduce the risk of unnecessary revascularization, the       complications and the costs inherent to these procedures and a phase II trial is requiring to       the evaluate this innovative and less invasive strategy.
The SLOW HEART REGISTRY is a multi-centered prospective observational study of fetuses       diagnosed with high-degree immune-mediated atrio-ventricular heart block (AVB). The study       seeks to establish an international database of the management and outcome of affected       fetuses, to be used to publish information on the results of currently available prenatal       care and to evaluate the need for additional research.        The study aims are to document the outcome of patients diagnosed prenatally with       immune-mediated 2nd or 3rd degree AVB irrespective of the primary choice of prenatal care.        The primary objective will be to determine the rate of transplant-free survival to 1 year of       life of fetuses with AVB based on the prenatal management decision:          -  Cohort 1: Fetuses not treated with fluorinated glucocorticoids          -  Cohort 2: Fetuses treated with fluorinated glucocorticoids from the time of            immune-mediated AVB diagnosis.        Secondary objectives will be to determine:          1. the evolution of clinical findings from AVB diagnosis to birth (AV conduction; fetal            heart rate; other NL manifestations; fetal growth; effusions/hydrops) between cohorts;          2. the need of new/additional treatment (steroids; beta-mimetics; IVIG) to birth;          3. gestational age and weight at birth;          4. postnatal management (pacing; steroids; IVIG); and          5. clinical evolution from birth to 1-3 years of life (cardiac function; developmental            milestones; infant growth; health).        Prevalence of relevant fetal-maternal events and complications (death; IUGR; morbidity)       between the study cohorts will also be determined.        All management is decided by the treating center and physicians in accordance to       institutional guidelines and clinical findings. Patient enrollment in the SLOW HEART REGISTRY       is possible within up to 8 days of the initial management decision.        Participation in this prospective observational cohort study requires site REB approval and       an executed legal contract with the primary investigator/SickKids Hospital, Toronto.
nan
Aim: To determine whether long-term treatment with oral betablocker (BB) therapy after       myocardial infarction (MI) in patient with no heart failure reduces the composite outcome of       death from any cause, recurrent MI, unstable angina pectoris, stroke or heart failure.        Intervention: BB therapy versus no therapy.        Main Inclusion Criteria: Patient that have suffered a MI, both Non-ST elevation MI and ST       elevation MI and can be randomized within 14 days of MI with no signs of heart failure and a       left ventricular ejection fraction>40%.        Main Exclusion Criteria: Any indication or contraindication for BB treatment other than       secondary prevention according to the treating cardiologist        Primary study endpoint: The composite of all-cause mortality, recurrent non-fatal MI,       unstable angina pectoris, stroke or heart failure        Sample Size: A total of 3570 patients will be recruited and randomized 1:1 to BB treatment       (type and dosage according to treating physician) or no BB treatment. Treatment must be       initiated within 14 days of MI.        Location: All departments of cardiology in Denmark are invited to participate. All patients       admitted to hospital for MI will be screened for in- and exclusion criteria and contacted if       eligible.        Treatment Duration: Estimated (non) treatment duration of 2-4 years. Follow-up: Patients will       be followed from the randomization date until end of follow-up with respect to the primary       and most secondary endpoints.        Assessment of primary study and safety end points: Serious adverse events (SAE) will be       monitored through patient reported hospital admission by surveys every 3 months combined with       local follow-up on patients that do not respond to surveys        Intervention and dosage of BB treatment: The intervention will be active treatment with BB,       type and dosage according to treating cardiologist choice and control will be standard care       (without BB treatment). The treating cardiologist is recommended to use the highest dose       deemed tolerable for the patient at the time of randomization. Dosage, adherence and       cross-over will be monitored through linkage to the Danish Register of Medical Product       Statistics.        Sample size considerations: Assuming a hazard ratio of 1.2 for the non-treated group compared       to the treated the DANBLOCK trial has 80% power to detect this effect with an accumulation of       900 events of the primary endpoint. With 3570 patients randomized the investigators expect to       reach 900 events within the study period.        Statistical Analysis: Intention-to-treat analysis will be carried out. Additionally, a       secondary per-protocol analysis will be performed, where compliant BB-users patients are       considered exposed during follow-up. Outcome analysis will be assessed by using cumulative       incidence and Cox-regressions.        Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB): This committee consisting of two senior cardiologists       and one trial-science statistician will overview safety and will have access to unblinded       data. They will formally review the accumulating data every 6 months throughout the study       period to ensure there is no avoidable increased harm to patients. The DSMB may recommend       trial termination due to excess risk associated with no treatment with BB.        Recruitment: All patients admitted to hospital for MI will be screened for in- and exclusion       criteria and contacted if eligible. Logistics of identifying and contacting the patients will       be organized locally; some hospitals will randomize patients before discharge, others will       contact patients after discharge. Patients will be randomized 1:1.        Publication policy: On study completion the results will be submitted for publication in an       international medical journal. The results of this study will also be submitted to the       Competent Authority and the Ethics Committee according to EU and Danish regulations.
Chronic heart failure represents an important cause of disease burden in Western countries.       Heart failure can be either caused by vascular disease (i.e. cardiomypathy (CMP) due to       coronary artery disease ("ischemic/ICMP")) or by myocardial conditions (i.e. dilated       cardiomyopathies (DCMP) resulting from other causes like familial disposition, drug toxicity,       etc.). Gold standard for the diagnosis of CMPs is the coronary angiography in conjunction       with left ventricular angiography and myocardial biopsy, non-invasive markers include       C-reactive protein (CRP) for ICMP and brain natriuretic protein (BNP) for DCMP. We have       previously identified G3BP to be overexpressed in foam cells and plasma-derived       microparticles, both potentially important in formation of atherosclerotic plaque. Galectin-3       binding protein (G3BP) is a secreted protein that is involved in cell adhesion and immune       activation. The purpose of the current study is to test, whether G3BP plasma levels (a) are       able to non-invasively differentiate causes of CMP and (b) are a suitable means for future       risk assessment in CMP patients.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of Transfemoral Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation       using SYM-SV-002 Aortic Bioprosthesis and SYM-DS-002 Transfemoral Delivery System in patients       presenting with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis and with difficulty to safely undergo       conventional surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR)
This clinical study is a prospective single-arm study designed to demonstrate that the acute       performance and safety of the LOTUS Edge Valve System when used with the iSleeve Introducer       Set or current Lotus Introducer Set are consistent with the results of the Lotus Valve System       used in the REPRISE II study, when delivered and deployed in symptomatic subjects who have       severe calcific aortic valve stenosis and who are at high risk for surgical aortic valve       replacement (SAVR).
Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis in elderly patients represents a surgical challenge for       cardiac surgeons due to heavy calcifications and associated comorbidities. Such conditions       usually are associated with dramatic intra and postoperative complications leading to many       cases being declined for open surgical replacement. Many treatment modalities were described       including trans-catheter valvotomy but with only temporary improvements and high rates of       recurrence.        Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) has offered an alternative solution to such       cases in which open surgery is deemed too risky or prohibited. Percutaneous Heart Valves       (PHV) implantations have been experimented on animals since the early 1990s. Yet the first       human case was not reported till 2002, in which a percutaneously implanted heart valve (PHV)       composed of 3 bovine pericardial leaflets mounted within a balloon-expandable stent was       developed and implanted through the antegrade trans-septal approach in a patient presenting       with severe calcific aortic stenosis associated with many noncardiac comorbidities including       leg ischaemia. Despite Patient's death after 17 weeks due to noncardiac causes, his follow-up       showed significant improvement of left ventricle (LV) function and aortic valve area after       implantation of the percutaneous valve.        This case was followed by several single-center and small multicenter registries and series       that included inoperable or very-high-risk patients, which were associated with promising       results that confirmed the feasibility of TAVI.        Many approaches are used for TAVI with the transfemoral approach being the primary option.       Abnormalities of the iliofemoral anatomy have led to the emergence of other approaches       including transapical, subclavian, axillary, and transaortic routes. Potential advantages of       such approaches would be the avoidance of using large catheters though the iliofemoral       system, aortic arch, ascending aorta, and aortic valve. Yet, their main disadvantage would be       the need for general anaesthesia.        As any surgical procedure, TAVI carries some risk of complications, major vascular injuries,       stroke, conduction abnormalities, myocardial infarction, coronary obstruction and acute       kidney injury have been reported. Although, careful planning, patient selection,       perioperative workup and individualised approach choice play an important role in avoiding       such problems.
Purpose of the Registry        The TVT Registry was designed to support a national surveillance system to assess the       characteristics, treatments, and outcomes of patients receiving transcutaneous valve       therapies. Patient-level data are submitted by participating hospitals to The Society of       Thoracic Surgeons (STS) and American College of Cardiology Foundation's (ACCF) joint TVT       Registry. The purposes of the TVT Registry include: (i) collecting pertinent and standardized       data elements from participating hospitals, health care providers and others that measure and       assess the quality of care for patients receiving TVT; (ii) providing confidential periodic       reports to participating hospitals, health care providers and others, to evaluate and improve       the quality of care in these areas; and (iii) permitting and fostering appropriate research       based upon the data collected by means of the TVT Registry.        The secondary aim of the TVT Registry is to serve as a scalable data infrastructure for post       market studies.        Background and Significance        Transcatheter valve therapies are now emerging into clinical practice from the research phase       in the United States. The first of several approaches to replacing the aortic valve without       open-chest surgery has now become a reality. Other valve and delivery systems are expected to       be approved in the upcoming years. An Expert Consensus Document on Transcatheter Valve       Therapy has outlined the initial technology, targeted patient population, and the       multidisciplinary heart team and specialized facilities needed. The document also proposes       the establishment of a national registry of patients with valvular heart disease that can       collect and analyze data as these new valve treatment options become available. Surveillance       of device performance, monitoring of long-term outcomes, and performance of comparative       effectiveness research are some of the proposed uses of the registry.        Transcatheter valve therapies have emerged because of unmet patient needs. Furthermore, TVT       has developed at a time when degenerative heart valve diseases of both the mitral and aortic       valves are increasing in frequency as the population ages. With the introduction of the first       TAVR commercial product, the targeted patient group is the "inoperable" patient who cannot       receive the traditional therapy of surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR). It is expected       that TAVR will subsequently be extended to patients who have high risk with SAVR. The marked       reduction of mortality by TAVR in the inoperable patients and the similar mortality of TAVR       versus SAVR in the high risk patients provide patients with a new therapy with benefits but       also with a different risk profile. Patients and their families will need to make informed       decisions regarding the likelihood of having a mortality benefit, of improving their       functional class and quality of life, of suffering a complication, and of choosing between       different care options and therapeutic approaches.        For these patients there are unique issues such as the prioritization of the health related       quality of life versus the quantity of life, the desire to preserve independence and avoid       becoming a burden to families, and the need to clearly understand what about their current       condition is reversible versus irreversible and linked to other conditions and aging. These       issues become further highlighted when considering the considerable costs and other treatment       burdens of the TVT technologies versus the disabling symptoms and recurrent hospitalizations       caused by untreated severe valvular heart disease.
nan
Prospective, randomized, controlled, open label, multicenter, international, non-inferiority       trial        If the Heart Team decides that a coronary revascularization and aortic valve replacement is       needed and the patient complies with inclusion and exclusion criteria then the patient will       be randomized in a 1:1 fashion between FFR-guided PCI + TAVI and CABG + SAVR.        Patients will receive optimal medical treatment at discharge. Follow-up will be performed at       30 days and at one year. During the 30 day follow-up visit (after TAVI) patients will be       evaluated for symptoms of angina.
nan
This is a prospective, multicentre, open label, randomized controlled, non-inferiority trial       (RCT) with a 1:1 randomization to alcohol septal ablation or surgical septal myectomy in       patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) between 40-75 year of age with       symptoms and/or syncope due to HOCM despite medical therapy. A total of 100 patients will be       included. All patients will be evaluated with bicycle ergometry exercise test, MRI and       2D-echo before and 1 year after invasive treatment. Follow-up will be at 1,3 and 5 years.
A paradigm-shift towards performing TAVI in intermediate- and low-risk patients has already       begun, as procedural results of TAVI have improved significantly within the past years.       Nevertheless, a prospective and independent comparison of surgical (SAVR) and interventional       (TAVI) valve therapy in patients considered at low to intermediate risk that covers an       "all-comers" patient population and multiple devices has not yet been performed.        The DEDICATE-trial is designed as a prospectively randomized (1:1), multi-center,       comparator-controlled interventional trial to investigate whether transcatheter aortic valve       implantation (TAVI) is non-inferior - as measured by all-cause mortality or stroke after 1       and 5 years - compared to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in the treatment of       patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis at low to intermediate operative risk of       mortality, as assessed by the local Heart Team.
-  On the assumption of our recent data (Thielmann et al, Lancet 2013, 382(9892):597-604),            we performed a power analysis, revealing an estimated enrollment of 189 patients per            group. But since no true data exist regarding RIPC and TAVI, interim analysis will be            performed after 50 patients per group.          -  After induction of conscious sedation or general anaesthesia, RIPC is accomplished by 3            cycles of 5 min inflation/5 min deflation of a blood pressure cuff around the left arm            to 200 mm Hg. In the placebo group, the blood pressure cuff remains uninflated for 30            min.          -  Blind: study coordinators, outcome assessors, operators and treating physicians except            for the attending anaesthetist.          -  Drugs used for conscious sedation: midazolam, remifentanil.          -  Drugs used for general anaesthesia: sufentanil, etomidate, rocuronium, isoflurane.          -  TAVI is performed by standard techniques using the balloon-expandable Sapien XT (Edwards            Lifesciences Inc., Irvine, California, USA) and the next-generation Sapien 3 stent-valve            bioprosthesis which replaces the Sapien XT prosthesis, when CE-approved.          -  Arterial blood samples are obtained prior to and after RIPC-maneuver/Placebo, after            aortic valve implantation and after access site closure, for biochemical analyses            focussing on ligands that have been previously implicated in conditioning protocols at            various organs. A bioassay system, consisting of a Langendorff-perfused isolated heart            with ischemia and reperfusion will be used. This bioassay system will be exposed to the            obtained arterial plasma of the patients.          -  Venous blood samples are drawn before TAVI and at 1, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours after            the procedure.          -  Cardiac and cerebral MRI is performed in selected patients at baseline and within the            first week after TAVI.          -  On-site follow-up at 3±3 months, 12±3 months and yearly thereafter.
A single arm, prospective, multicenter, non-randomized, and open trial, up to 5 years       follow-up with the Symetis ACURATE TA™ which is an aortic bioprosthesis for minimal invasive       implantation vie transapical access to treat patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis       where conventional aortic valve replacement (AVR) via open heart surgery is considered to be       associated with high surgical risk for evaluating safety and performance of the implantation       and safety at 30-D follow-up.
Primary Objective        • To compare the efficacy of concomitant AF ablation using HIFU to no ablation at 12 months       in patients with persistent or long standing persistent AF undergoing CABG according to       ACC/AHA/ESC 2006 guidelines and HRS/EHRA/ECAS Consensus Statement on Catheter and Surgical       Ablation .        Secondary Objectives          -  To compare the safety of concomitant AF ablation using HIFU to no ablation in patients            with persistent or long standing persistent AF undergoing CABG.          -  To compare AF burden in patients with persistent or long standing persistent AF treated            with concomitant HIFU AF ablation undergoing CABG to those receiving no ablation.          -  To compare the quality of life of patients with persistent or long standing persistent            AF treated with concomitant HIFU AF ablation undergoing CABG to those receiving no            ablation.          -  To compare the health economic impact of concomitant AF ablation with HIFU in patients            with persistent or long standing persistent AF undergoing CABG to those receiving no            ablation.          -  To compare the morbidity associated with persistent or long standing persistent AF in            patients following CABG and ablation compared to those receiving no ablation.          -  To compare cardiac function and left atrial transport associated with persistent or long            standing persistent AF patients following CABG and ablation compared to those receiving            no ablation.          -  To document the incidence of immediate post ablation bidirectional conduction block            through the pulmonary venous cinch and mitral lines.          -  To document the effect of Intra-operative pre and post ablation stimulation and ablation            of the autonomic ganglia.
This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm clinical study comparing outcomes with the       GORE® CARDIOFORM ASD Occluder to performance goals derived from clinical investigation       outcomes for devices indicated for ASD closure.
Severe systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a serious autoimmune disorder in which a person's own       immune cells attack organs in the body. SSc affects the skin, joints, lungs, heart,       intestinal tract, and kidneys, and half of the patients with the most severe organ       involvement die within 5 years. Treatment for SSc usually includes supportive care or       immunosuppressive drugs (drugs to suppress the immune system). As the immune cells are       believed to be causing the disease, researchers are looking for new therapies that either       slow down or stop this process, while not being too toxic.        The main purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of high-dose       immunosuppressive therapy followed by reinfusion (transplantation) of the participant's own       autologous (self) peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) compared to treatment with monthly (for       12 months) intravenous doses of cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) therapy for the treatment of       severe systemic sclerosis (SSc). These treatments are being given in order to determine if       they will slow down or stop SSc from becoming more severe, and if they can reverse the       effects of the disease. The researchers are evaluating the effects of the two treatments on       serious organ damage and survival related to SSc, while also looking at the side effects of       the two treatments.        This trial also includes three optional mechanistic sub-studies open to a subset of       participants enrolled in the SCOT trial:          1. Pharmacokinetics of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in Patients Receiving Cyclophosphamide for            the SCOT trial (Originally listed separately as DAIT SCSSc-01-01, NCT00848614). The            purpose of this study is to determine the plasma concentration and exposure time            required for cyclophosphamide to produce optimal immunosuppressive activity with minimal            toxicity in participants with severe systemic sclerosis.          2. Vascular Progenitor Cells and the Pathogenesis of Systemic Sclerosis(Originally listed            separately as DAIT SCSSc-01-02, NCT00871221). The purpose of this study is to measure            and characterize the circulating endothelial progenitor cells from the blood of 30            participants and also to determine the extent of vascular cell apoptosis and            proliferation in cutaneous microvasculature in these participants before and after the            receipt of the two SCOT treatment regimens.          3. Molecular Analysis of T Cell Immune Recovery for the SCOT Trial(Originally listed            separately as DAIT SCSSc-01-03, NCT00872508). The purpose of this study is [1] to            describe the condition of peripheral T cell reactivity and repertoire diversity in SSc            patients and evaluate evidence for potential defects prior to randomization, [2] to gain            a better understanding of the impact of cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and high-dose            immunosuppressive therapy with autologous stem cell transplantation on thymopoiesis, and            [3] to describe the kinetics and breadth of T cell immune recovery in SSc patients            treated with these interventions.
The interventional therapy of heartbeat disturbances by means of catheter ablation makes the       curative treatment possible of numerous tachycardiac arrhythmics. By this crucial improvement       of the supply of patients and its quality of life a genuine healing of a multiplicity of       heartbeat disturbances became possible. Especially within the range of the ablation treatment       there are relatively few con-trolled studies, which would give a broad collection of the       results of the catheter ablation in the different indication areas.        Aim of the registry:        Documentation of indication, hospital course and complications during long term follow-up of       patients with catheter ablation        Design:        Prospective, multicenter registry; FU-duration 12 months.        Duration:        Phase I: 2 years        Inclusion criteria:        Catheter ablation (intention to treat)        Exclusion criteria:        Missing declaration of consent
nan
The purpose is to study the possible benefit of a superior treatment decision rate for       cardiac arrhythmias (brady- and or/ tachyarrhythmias) using an implantable cardiac monitor       (ICM) in patients with Chagas Disease diagnosed by serology, who are asymptomatic and/or       minimally symptomatic. Patients that meet inclusion criteria of the study will be randomized       to standard care or standard care plus ICM.        Approximately half of the patients will receive an ICM. All patients will be followed for 36       months. It is expected that the enrollment phase will last 1 year, and that the total study       duration will be 4 years. The study is expected to end in 2017. One hundred and two patients       are needed for 95% confidence level and 80% statistical power to be randomized into the       study, at approximately 5 centers in Latin America. Patients will be considered enrolled once       they have signed the Informed Consent. The following additional parameters will also be       collected:          -  Recorded arrhythmic events stored within the ICM (bradyarrhythmia and tachyarrhythmia)          -  Time duration spent in arrhythmia and incidence of symptomatic arrhythmias in patients            with an ICM.          -  Clinical data on subject outcomes and changes in heart failure as assessed by heart            failure hospitalizations, New York Heart Association class and mortality.
This study, previously designed as a single-center experience, is multicenter, observational       and both retrospective and prospective.        Retrospective phase includes all clinical data occurring before the index event       (hospitalization or clinically suspected myocarditis) and myocarditis diagnosis. Prospective       phase includes all data following index event and myocarditis diagnosis.        This study has multiple aims.          1. To compare EMB with noninvasive diagnostic techniques (CMR, DECT, PET scan, either alone            or in association).          2. To assess the role of blood biomarkers for identification of aetiology, predisposition,            prognosis, response to treatment, inflammatory activity, clinical presentation.          3. To describe myocarditis presenting with arrhythmias, with special focus on ventricular            arrhythmias at different myocarditis stages and in different clinical contexts. To            validate and generalize the leader hospital model for optimal diagnostic and            therapeutical management of arrhythmias in myocarditis patients (given the role of the            leader hospital as an international referral center for arrhythmias ablation and            management).          4. To evaluate the timing needed for myocarditis healing in different patients subgroups,            as assessed by noninvasive imaging techniques (CMR, DECT, PET scan), either alone or in            association.          5. To compare patients subgroups of myocarditis, in terms of epidemiology, aetiology,            prognosis, and diagnostic-therapeutical strategies. Among the others, the main study            subgroups will be:        A. Arrhythmic vs. non-arrhythmic myocarditis. B. Arrhythmic myocarditis subgroups. C.       Non-arrhythmic myocarditis subgroups (i.e.: fulminant, acute coronary syndrome-like,       pericarditis-like, heart failure, nonischaemic dilated /hypokinetic cardiomyopathies of       unknown aetiology…).        D. Infectious vs. autoimmune vs. toxic myocarditis. E. Myocarditis treated by aetiology-based       treatment vs. isolated cardiac medical treatment.        F. Myocarditis at different disease stages: acute, hyperacute, fulminant, chronic active,       post-inflammatory, or active vs. previous vs. non-myocarditis.        G. Myocarditis presenting as organ-specific diseases vs. in the context of a genetic disorder       or systemic disease.        H. Myocarditis vs. peri-myocarditis/myo-pericarditis. I. Other analyses.        Any adult patient with clinically suspected myocarditis, of any clinical presentation and any       degree of severity, will be considered as suitable for study enrollment.        Patients will undergo diagnostic and therapeutical strategies considered as clinically       indicated in a patient-tailored manner, as suggested by international guidelines       recommendations and best local clinical practice. Patients will be free of either accepting       or refusing any diagnostic or therapeutical proposal. Whenever accepted, data will be simply       collected and analyzed.        Based on clinical presentation, patients will be divided into two groups, arrhythmic (group       A) and non-arrhythmic (group NA, including any other clinical presentation).        Independently of A/NA groups, all patients will undergo optimal diagnostic and therapeutic       strategies, as summarized in panel A. In parallel, special diagnostic and therapeutical       strategies will be performed in patients with arrhythmic presentation or evidence of       arrhythmias, as shown in panel B. Proposed flowcharts (Panels A and B) represent only an       approximate algorithm. Exceptions can be made in single cases, based on clinical indications.        Panel A - Diagnostic and therapeutical workup in all patients. Independently of groups       (A/NA), all patients will undergo optimal diagnostic and therapeutical workup, guided by       updated scientific evidence merged with the clinical experience of the center.        Baseline diagnostic workup will include: complete blood exams, 12-leads ECG, continuous       telemetric monitoring, transthoracic doppler echocardiogram, coronary artery imaging       (coronary angiography or CT scan). Any other clinically relevant diagnostic test will be       collected.        In life-threatening presentations (cardiogenic shock or malignant arrhythmias), support       treatment by optimal medical therapy, inotropic or mechanical circulatory support, and       acute-phase arrhythmia management (including cardioversion, defibrillation, or temporary       pacing) will be performed, as indicated, before completing diagnostic workup.        Final diagnosis of myocarditis will include, whenever applicable:        A. For stable patients: 1) a second-level imaging technique (CMR as first choice; and/or       DECT, PET, or multiple/fusion imaging techniques, based on clinical indications); followed       by: 2) EMB, whenever clinically indicated. Blood exams for aetiology screening will be       personalized upon clinical indications.        B. For unstable patients: EMB only, as recommended. Blood exams for aetiology screening will       be personalized upon clinical indications.        Diagnostic criteria for myocarditis, as assessed by any diagnostic technique, will be defined       based on international scientific evidence and will be constantly updated. Similar       considerations apply to myocarditis staging and aetiology definition. Whenever not available       at local institutions, diagnostic exams can be performed and analyzed at external centers.        All patients with myocarditis (or any alternative final diagnosis), will undergo standard       cardiological optimal medical treatment (COMT), as indicated. By converse,       aetiology-dependent treatment will be performed only in patients with a final diagnosis of       any active (acute, fulminant, chronic active) myocarditis of defined aetiology (EMB-proved).       Multidisciplinary assessment, including infective disease specialists (in viral/infective       myocarditis), immunologists (in non-infective/autoimmune myocarditis) or any other specialist       as needed, will be used to identify indications to treatment, drug choice (either approved or       with a justified unapproved indication), treatment duration and safety profile, aiming at the       best patients' interest. Toxic myocarditis will be treated accordingly, by evaluating the       opportunity of withdrawing pathogenic noxa.        This protocol will not interfere with local best clinical practice. Patients with non-active       myocarditis (previous or healed) or with non-myocarditis, will undergo "standard FU" (see       below). Patients with active myocarditis will undergo "intensive FU" (see below).        Independently of FU modalities, diagnostic reassessment will be considered in the presence of       at least one of the following instability criteria: a) new unexplained cardiac symptoms       (dyspnoea, chest pain, syncope, palpitation); b) new unexplained increase in troponin or       natriuretic peptides; c) new imaging abnormal signs; d) new unexplained clinically relevant       arrhythmias. Diagnostic reassessment will include second-level imaging and/or EMB, as shown       above. Subsequent therapeutical workup will be in line with the above explanations. In stable       patients or undergone myocarditis healing, exercise stress test will be obtained, whenever       possible.        Panel B - Diagnostic and therapeutical workup of patients with arrhythmias In parallel with       (and independently of) Panel A content, patients with arrhythmias (group A) will undergo       specific diagnostic and therapeutical management for arrhythmias, as a result of the       integration between international guidelines recommendations and the experience of an       international referral center for arrhythmia management and ablation.        To oversimplify, 4 groups of patients will be considered.          1. Group 1: major ventricular arrhythmias, including haemodynamically unstable VT (hu-VT)            and ventricular fibrillation (VF).             After electrical stabilization and support treatment (panel A), indication to secondary            prevention ICD implant will be multiparametric and patient-tailored. In patients with            active myocarditis, subcutaneous ICD (S-ICD) or wearable CD (WCD) will be considered.            Antiarrhythmic drugs will be considered in all Group 1 patients. In addition, all Group            1 patients will undergo COMT and aetiology-dependent treatment whenever applicable            (panel A). Ablation of ventricular arrhythmias will be considered in patients with            severe arrhythmic presentation, or symptomatic, or refractory to optimal medical            treatment. Electrophysiological study (EPS) may be used in selected cases. A cardiac            resynchronization therapy with defibrillator function (CRT-D) will replace ICD whenever            indicated.          2. Group 2: other ventricular arrhythmias, including high-burden (hb) premature ventricular            complexes (PVC); nonsustained VT (NSVT); haemodynamically stable VT (hs-VT).             Whenever clinically indicated, Group 2 patients will undergo invasive EPS (or in            alternative noninvasive programmed ventricular stimulation in ICD carriers) to stratify            arrhythmic risk. Patients with positive EPS will undergo ICD (or S-ICD/WCD) as in Group            1. Patients with negative EPS, as well as Group 2 cases not undergoing EPS, will undergo            watchful waiting strategy (always with an intensive FU) with or without loop recorder            implant: in these cases, ICD (or S-ICD/WCD) will be implanted only following            documentation of relevant VA in FU. In addition, all Group 2 patients will undergo            antiarrhythmic treatment, COMT and aetiology-dependent treatment whenever applicable            (panel A). In symptomatic or drug-refractory cases, ablation of ventricular arrhythmias            will be considered. A CRT-D will replace ICD whenever indicated.          3. Group 3: bradyarrhythmias, including advanced (2nd type II or 3rd degree)            atrioventricular block (AVB); critical sinus pauses from sinus node disease (SND).             After electrical stabilization and support treatment (panel A), including the use of            temporary pacemaker as a bridge-to-decision, patients will undergo watchful waiting            strategy or definitive device implant. Instead of a pacemaker (PM), ICD will be            considered in the presence of high-risk criteria for ventricular tachyarrhythmias,            including: a) overlap with Group 1 presentation; b) overlap with Group 2 presentation,            especially in the presence of positive EPS; c) other indications for primary prevention            ICD implant (severe systolic dysfunction); d) signs of increased tachyarrhythmic risk            (scar signs); e) patients with special aetiologies leading to an increased            tachyarrhythmic risk (i.e: cardiac sarcoid, giant cell myocarditis, Chagas disease,            overlapping genetic syndromes). In addition, all Group 3 patients will undergo COMT and            aetiology-dependent treatment whenever applicable (panel A). A CRT-D or a CRT-P will            replace ICD or PM, respectively, whenever indicated.          4. Group 4: supraventricular arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation (AF); atrial            flutter (AFlu); atrial tachycardia (AT).             Following acute-phase rate control (RaC), stable rhythm control (RyC) strategy will be            considered as the therapeutical target, together with appropriate anticoagulation, as            needed. Normal sinus rhythm will be obtained through either electrical or            pharmacological cardioversion. In patients with unsuccessful attempts of sinus rhythm            conversion, optimal treatment of active myocarditis will be considered as a primary            target. Following myocarditis healing, in the presence of persistent arrhythmias,            patients will be considered for RyC via electrical or pharmacological cardioversion.            Transcatheter ablation will be an option for patients with drug-symptomatic, recurrent            or refractory arrhythmias. Permanent RaC strategy will be considered only in non            responders. Widespread use of implantable loop recorders will apply, as clinically            indicated. In addition, all Group 4 patients will undergo COMT and aetiology-dependent            treatment whenever applicable (panel A).             Aims in detail. Aim 1 Comparison between EMB and second level imaging findings (N=1000)             Primary:             Diagnostic concordance             Secondary:             Inflammatory activity (presence; type; quantification) Fibrosis (presence; type;            quantification) Coronary microvascular disease Comparison between EMB sampling site and            abnormal substrate localization at imaging (including substrate-guided EMB or            alternative biopsy techniques) Role of EMB guided by electroanatomical map Diagnostic            performance of DECT and/or PET, especially when CMR is contraindicated Comparison            between CMR/DECT findings and PET scan (including fusion imaging) or advanced imaging            techniques including strain analysis at echocardiogram Comparison between substrate            abnormalities localizations (as assessed by second level imaging techniques) and            arrhythmias (type, characteristics and origin site) Comparison among different            diagnostic techniques (EMB, CMR/DECT, PET) in terms of safety and diagnostic accuracy            Evaluation of differential diagnosis with other cardias diseases, and particularly with            arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy of any localization (left, right, biventricular, to            identify updated diagnostic criteria) Comparison between information provided by all the            techniques above, and data from electroanatomical mapping (EAM) Other analyses             Aim 2 Evaluation of blood exams and biomarkers (N=1000)             Primary:             Identification of diagnostic biomarkers Identification of aetiology biomarkers             Secondary:             Cardiac and inflammatory biomarkers evaluation in different myocarditis subtypes            Identification of biomarkers of inflammatory stage (acute vs. chronic; active vs.            previous) Comparison between local and systemic/peripheral inflammation Correlations            with EMB and second-level imaging (CMR, DECT, PET…) findings Identification of genetic            factors with any role in predisposition, prognosis, response to treatment, or any other            correlation, either in the presence or in the absence of underlying cardiomyopathy or            autoimmune/inflammatory disease Identification of prognostic biomarkers Identification            of biomarkers associated with treatment response Evaluation of any tissue/organ damage            or associated comorbidities Study of cardiac autoantibodies Study of any cell, tissue,            genetic or circulating biomarker Correlations with clinical presentations Other analyses             Aim 3 Validation of optimal management of arrhythmic myocarditis (N=1000)             Primary:             Evaluation of effects on major endpoints             Secondary:             Evaluation of effects on minor endpoints Role of electrophysiological study in risk            stratification Role of loop recorders in arrhythmia monitoring Role of transcatheter            ablation (any technique) on arrhythmic outcomes Identification of optimal timing for any            electrophysiological/device procedure Role of pharmacological antiarrhythmic treatment            Role of aetiology-specific treatment on arrhythmic outcomes Identification of criteria            for device implants (PM, ICD, S-ICD, CRT-D…) in myocarditis patients Validation of            therapeutic strategies and their optimal timing in patients with supraventricular            arrhythmias, bradyarrhythmias, or ventricular arrhythmias Correlation between arrhythmia            type/features with any other diagnostic exam performed at baseline or during FU (mainly            EMB, CMR/DECT/PET, echocardiogram, stress tests, blood exams, genetic/blood/tissue/cell            biomarkers) Indications and timing for device (ICD, CRT-D) implant in primary            prevention, based on multiparametric risk assessment, and in relation to different            general and aetiology-dependent treatments Other analyses             Aim 4 Evaluation of healing timing in myocarditis (N=500) Primary Any degree of recovery            by 3, 6, 9, 12 and > 12 months Secondary Comparison of healing times in treated vs.            untreated patients Correlations between healing times and clinical presentation types            Correlations between healing times and any biomarker Correlations between healing times            and any outcomes Validation of exercise stress test role after myocarditis healing            Evaluation of PET scan or other diagnostic techniques as alternatives to CMR in special            populations Other analyses             Aim 5 Subgroup analyses (N=500, hugely variable in each subanalysis) A vs. NA groups; A            myocarditis subgroups; NA myocarditis subgroups (including fulminant); Infective vs.            autoimmune vs. toxic forms; Treated by aetiology-driven therapy vs. standard            cardiological treatment; Different myocarditis stages and differential diagnoses;            Isolated vs. in the context o a systemic disease or genetic disease; Myocarditis vs.            perimyocarditis/ myopericarditis Primary Differences in major outcomes Secondary            Differences in minor outcomes Differences in any biomarker Differences in any diagnostic            exam Differences in aetiology Differences in predisposition Differences in inflammatory            activity Differences in pericardial involvement Differences in systemic involvement            Differences in arrhythmias types and features Differences in clinical presentation            Differences in treatment response, including novel treatments Validation of local            aetiology/pathophysiology-dependent treatments Validation of biomarkers and imaging            techniques in monitoring response to treatment Identification of optimal follow-up            timeline Other analyses
New generation Cardiac Implantable Electronic devices (CIED's)such as Pacemakers, Implantable       Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) and Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) has diagnostic       and treatment delivery features which helps in slowing the progression of Atrial       Fibrillation. A Study conducted in Europe, called the MINERVA Trial, showed the efficacy of a       feature within Medtronic CIED's called (rATP)™, in the termination of abnormal rhythms by       pacing stimuli, and clinical benefit in reducing incidence of Atrial Fibrillation. However,       there is dearth of local evidence of this within the Indian population and also a need to       show that turning on rATP does not compromise on battery depletion.        The MANDATE-AF study is a prospective , Interventional , Randomized, single blind study       aiming to show that a reduced sequence programming of this rATP therapy ,can improve device       battery longevity and is as effective as the Minerva trial ATP programming when it comes to       showing its impact on time to persistent AF and on the progression of AT/AF within the Indian       population.        The study analyses patients implanted with a Medtronic cardiac implantable device with an       atrial lead and equipped with atrial ATP therapies.        The patients will be randomized into two groups:          -  an interventional arm including patients with a conservative atrial ATP therapies            programming setting          -  a control, arm including patients with the same atrial ATP therapies programming setting            adopted in the Minerva Trial        Cardiovascular events will be collected prospectively for at least 24 months after       enrollment. Physicians will be recommended to schedule in clinic follow-up visits every 6       months and remote follow-up visits every 3 months in between. Every patient will be followed       for at least 24 months, until the last patient enrolled exits the study.
Background: Since the establishment of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in       Romania in 2015 there has been a growing number of interventions being performed by an       increasing number of hospitals throughout the country. In 2018, there were more than 250       implants, which are expected to grow in the following years by about 30% on an annual basis.        Objective: This is a national quality assurance initiative to improve patient care and       outcomes. It further serves as a database for the assessment of the safety and efficacy of       TAVI and its financial implications (e.g. reimbursement).        Design: National, prospective, observational, multi-center registry. All centers performing       TAVI in Romania; minimum cases per center for inclusion: 20 cases/year-to-date Population:       All patients undergoing TAVI in Romania at any of the participating centers with a CE-marked       valve of any manufacturer given that they provide written informed consent.
BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Patients diagnosed with operable cancer in upper gastro-intestinal       (GI) tract undergo serious therapeutic procedures including invasive surgery combined with       chemo- or chemo-radio therapy before (neo-adjuvant) and/or after (adjuvant) surgery. Despite       recent advances, especially in surgical techniques and patient care follow-up, the population       is faced with one of the worst prognosis for patients with operable staged disease, with a       5-year relative survival of 35-40%. The only possibility of long-term survival is positive       surgical outcome, which includes the surgical principle of performing wide clearance,       achieving a negative margin (R0 resection), and performing a radical lymphadenectomy. To this       end, considerable efforts have been made in recent years optimizing the perioperative period       in order to provide the patients and the surgeons with the best possible chances of achieving       this surgical outcome.        Adenocarcinoma of the gastro-esophageal junction (GEJ) has increased in incidence over the       last quarter century. For patients presenting with localized disease, advances in standards       of care have emerged in recent years which have improved disease management. Firstly,       comprehensive staging with Computed Tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasound, diagnostic       laparoscopy and fluoro deoxy glucose position emission tomography (18FDG-PET) permits       exclusion of patients for curative therapy who might previously have been scheduled for       resection. Secondly, evidence supports that esophagectomy is performed in high-volume       hospitals by high-volume surgeons. Finally, standard neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies are       performed in most centers for patients with localized esophageal adenocarcinoma which has       improved both short- and long-term cancer outcomes.        Prognostic role of Muscle Function in upper GI cancer For all upper GI cancers, including       GEJ, the perioperative course of therapy is associated with severe deconditioning which       includes weight loss and poor physical function. Over the last decade, strong observational       evidence has emerged supporting that poor pre-surgical muscle function, defined as either low       muscle mass/area (sarcopenia) or low functional strength, is a strong independent predictor       of post-surgical outcomes including mortality, surgical complications and chemotherapy       dose-reduction. Importantly, strong evidence across different malignancies has shown that the       prognostic value of muscle function is independent from body mass, and may actually be       under-reported due to sarcopenic obesity. Thus, current available therapeutic countermeasures       in clinical practice, which exclusively involve nutritional interventions, may have limited       potential for ameliorating the progressive muscle dysfunction during perioperative treatment       for GEJ cancer.        Exercise-Oncology and Upper GI cancer Epidemiological evidence across both heterogeneous and       homogeneous groups of cancer patients have shown that low physical activity level after       diagnosis is associated with poor disease-specific and overall survival. Despite a general       emerging interest, limited attention has been dedicated to the exploration of safety,       feasibility and efficacy of structured exercise interventions in patients with upper GI       cancer. However, data from recent studies suggests an unmet potential of physical exercise in       these patients, with particular emphasis on the pre-surgical period.        STUDY OBJECTIVES Primary Objective        • To explore safety and feasibility of structured exercise in the pre- and post-operative       phases among patients undergoing treatment for operable GEJ cancer        Secondary objectives:          -  To explore the effect of perioperative exercise training on clinical (e.g. clindo-davien            score, pneumonia, anastomotic leakage) physiological (e.g. muscle strength, physical            function) and psycho-social (e.g. fatigue, emotional well-being, anxiety) endpoints            relative to usual care.          -  To explore the prognostic role of pathophysiological profile (physical function,            pulmonary function, and body-composition) on post-surgical complications        Explorative objectives:          -  To explore molecular adaptations of metabolism and physiology in tumor, muscle and fat            samples taken before and after neo-adjuvant chemotherapy in the pre-operative phase in            (a sub-group of) patients allocated to exercise training or usual care          -  To explore the acute response in immune cells, hormones and cytokines in blood samples            taken before, during and after a single exercise session          -  Collection of blood and tissue samples for storage in bio-bank for future research.        STUDY DESIGN This prospective, regional-based case-controlled feasibility trial will include       in a minimum of 40 patients, including 20 training intervention-cases who are residents in       greater Copenhagen Area, and 20 usual care controls living outside the greater Copenhagen       area.        Recruitment: Patients will be recruited from the department of surgical gastroenterology,       Rigshospitalet, following multidisciplinary medical conference. The responsible physicians       will provide oral information and present patients with the written information of the study.        Patients who are willing to participate will sign informed consent, before any study related       procedures are performed. After signing informed consent, patients are scheduled for baseline       assessment and will be allocated based on geographical location (home-town municipality), to       one of two experimental arms:        I) Patient residing OUTSIDE the Copenhagen area, will be allocated to a usual care       observation group, which includes nurse-based follow up procedures and information on life       style factors (diet, smoking cessation, alcohol, and physical activity).        II) Patients residing WITHIN the Copenhagen area, will be allocated to usual care plus       hospital-based aerobic and resistance training at Centre for Physical Activity Research,       Rigshospitalet        Procedures will involve assessment-measures conducted a total of 5 times during the study       period: twice prior to surgery (baseline and pre-surgery test), twice post-surgery (3 week       post- and 15 weeks post-surgery) and at 1-year follow-up.        The following assessments will be performed:          1. Body composition by Bioelectrical Impedance          2. Fasting blood sample for analyses of plasma biochemistry (cholesterol, triglycerides,            inflammatory markers, HbA1C)          3. Health related Quality of Life questionnaires          4. Physical function: Handgrip strength and sit-to-stand test.          5. Forced Expiration Volume in 1 second (FEV1)          6. Biological tissue sampling (OPTIONAL): tumor, muscle and fat biopsies and blood samples            - only baseline and pre-surgery.          7. Acute Exercise Response (OPTIONAL); blood samples taken before and after a single            exercise session.        ANALYTIC PLAN As a feasibility study, this trial is explorative in nature and performed       primarily in order to determine whether it is appropriate to advance with a larger scaled       randomized controlled trial.        Primary aim        Safety and feasibility of perioperative exercise training in patients with operable GEJ       cancer        In order to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the pre- and post-surgical exercise in       patients with operable cancer of the gastro-esophageal junction, incidence of serious adverse       events in both groups will be determined, and adherence to exercise, assessed by number of       training sessions completed in the training group.        Secondary aims        Efficacy of perioperative exercise training to improve clinical, physiological and       psycho-social outcomes in patients operable GEJ cancer.        In order to determine whether exercise training has the capacity to improve study outcomes       intragroup changes, and inter-group differences for study outcomes will be calculated. For       this purpose a random effect analysis will be performed with repeated measures and study       outcomes as dependent variables, with the covariates "group", "time" and their interaction as       fixed effects, and a random effect of "patient", adjusted for baseline-score, chemotherapy       regimen, and surgical procedure (conventional vs laparoscopic).        Prognostic role of pathophysiological profile in patients with operable GEJ cancer        In order to explore the prognostic role of the study assessment outcomes on key clinical       endpoints: post-surgical complications, hospital stay duration and disease free and overall       mortality risk over the first years after surgery, by a general linear regression models with       clinical endpoints being the dependent variable, and study assessment outcomes as the       independent variables adjusted for baseline-score, chemotherapy regimen, and surgical       procedure (conventional vs laparoscopic). For each variable (physical function, pulmonary       function, and body-composition), the predictive value of: I) the diagnostic level (prior to       neo-adjuvant therapy), II) the pre-surgical level (after neo-adjuvant treatment) and III) the       change score from diagnostic to pre-surgical level (during neo-adjuvant therapy) will be       determined.        Dropouts and Missing Observations Patients who wish to drop-out of the study during the       intervention-periods will be offered to remain in the study with regard to test-assessments.       Patients who drop out prior to 'visit 2' will be replaced. For between-group analyses, all       drop-outs and missing observations will be handled by the "missing at random" principle.        ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS This study will be conducted in accordance with the regional ethical       committee and the Declaration of Helsinki (1964) with its subsequent revisions. The protocol       and any substantial amendments, the study patient information and consent form, as well as       other relevant or requested material have been approved by the local ethics committee       (Videnskabsetisk Komite) for the Capital Region of Denmark (Protocol number: H-15014904) and       is reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency (Datatilsynet: RH-2016-33, I-Suite nr.:       04396) through Rigshospitalet/Capital Region of Denmark (j.nr. 2012-58-0004).        The project is expected to cause limited risks, side effects and discomfort. All procedures       will be performed by experienced physicians, therapists and physiologists with relevant       safety, and patients will not experience any kind of delays or complications related to       treatment or control process due to participation in the project. Patients may at any time,       and without justification, retract their consent.
-  Purpose of the study: To determine the safety and efficacy of the CardioFit™ system for            treatment of Class II-III Heart Failure patients.          -  Study hypothesis: CardioFit system treatment will improve patients Heart Failure            parameters.          -  Tested hypothesis: Thirty patients are required to provide 80% power at 95% confidence            level in order to detect 12 points difference on a quality of life questionnaire between            pre- and post activation.          -  Design: Prospective, self-controlled interventional study composed of 5 periods:            Pre-implantation, Implantation, Device activation, Follow-up (with active device) and            post-study extension period.          -  Study duration is 7.5-months per patient. At the end of the study, patients enter an            extension period (with active devices) during which they will be monitored for quality            of life and survival, for up to 3 years post-implantation in 6-months intervals.          -  Study Endpoints:               -  Primary endpoints: The occurrence of all system and/or procedure related adverse                 events.               -  Secondary endpoints: changes in the following individual variables as well as in a                 composite score of individual variables change: NYHA class; Quality of Life;                 Exercise capacity (by 6-min walk); LV Ejection fraction; LV end-systolic and                 end-diastolic volumes; blood tests.          -  Up to 10 participating centers in Europe, Israel and Australia
This is a prospective, non-randomized, multi-center trial. Up to 950 subjects will be       enrolled at up to 35 centers in the US. After replacement of their aortic heart valve with       the EDWARDS INTUITY valve system, each patient will have routine follow-up tests at the       following intervals: discharge, 3 months, 1 year, and annually thereafter for a minimum of       five years.
Palpitations (noticeable pounding, fluttering or irregular heart beat) and pre syncope (near       blackout) are common ED problems sometimes due to an abnormal heart rhythm. Diagnosis is       difficult as examination and electrocardiogram (ECG) are commonly normal and symptoms have       usually resolved by the time the patient arrives in the ED. Diagnosing an abnormal heart       rhythm as the cause of symptoms rests on capturing it on an ECG and patients are usually       advised to return to the ED for a 12-lead ECG should symptoms recur. The investigators will       recruit 242 participants aged 16 years or over presenting to the ED or Medical Assessment       Unit of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh with an episode of palpitations or pre-syncope and       who remain undiagnosed after ED assessment. The investigators will randomise and allocate       participants to either study or control arms. All study arm participants will be given an       AliveCor Heart Monitor and trained in the use of the device. Control arm participants will       receive standard care only. If a participant allocated to the study arm has palpitations or       pre-syncope during the 90-day study period, the participant can record an ECG using the       AliveCor Monitor which can be viewed by the study team. Participants will be asked to log       symptoms and whether the participant was able to record an ECG during the symptoms in a       participant symptom diary, which the participant will return to the research team along with       the Participant satisfaction and compliance questionnaire, and smart phone based event       recorder at the end of the 90 days in a pre-paid stamped, addressed envelope. Participants       will be phoned at 90 days to remind the participant to complete the Participant satisfaction       and compliance questionnaire and to return this with the symptom diary and smart phone based       event recorder. The investigators believe a smart phone based event recorder will allow       better and earlier diagnosis in patients.
Aortic valve replacement with mechanical or biological heart valves is the treatment of       choice for aortic valve stenosis. Over the past several years, life expectancy has increased       in industrial nations, but this has been accompanied by a rising rate of elderly patients       with multiple illnesses.        Aortic stenosis remains the most common cause of adult valvular heart disease, the prevalence       increasing with age. Average survival of patients treated conservatively has historically       been reported as 2-5 years from the onset of symptoms. More recent studies have confirmed the       dismal prognosis of severe aortic stenosis. Advanced age, reduced left-ventricular ejection       fraction, congestive heart failure and renal insufficiency appear to be independent       predictors of reduced survival. Asymptomatic patients with very severe aortic stenosis also       share a poor prognosis with a high event rate and a risk of rapid functional deterioration.       Early surgery offers a therapeutic option to improve clinical outcomes via decreasing cardiac       mortality and improving symptoms.        Bioprostheses offer several advantages over mechanical bioprostheses, the most important       being freedom from anticoagulation with a low rate of thromboembolic accidents.        In response to clinical need and in support of advances in minimally invasive surgical       approaches to conventional AVR, Edwards Lifesciences developed the EDWARDS INTUITY Elite       Valve System to achieve clinical benefits by reducing cardiopulmonary bypass and cross clamp       times, while facilitating a less invasive approach to aortic valve replacement.        The system includes the EDWARDS INTUITY Elite Valve System, Model 8300AB and the EDWARDS       INTUITY Elite Delivery System, Model 8300DB; the valve is based on prior heart valve designs       which have a long history of safety and effectiveness and have incorporated additional       features designed to improve patient outcomes and safety.        With only 3 guiding sutures and secure balloon expandable frame, the EDWARDS INTUITY Elite       Valve system is well suited for smaller incisions and tight access, with an emphasis on       procedural efficiency within existing operating suite of the surgeon.
The RESPOND study is a prospective, open label, single arm, multi-center, observational post       market study designed to collect real world clinical and device performance outcomes data of       the commercially available Lotus Valve used in routine clinical practice for the treatment of       severe calcific aortic stenosis. Approximately 1000 real-world, consecutive subjects will be       enrolled at up to 50 study centers in Europe, Asia Pacific and Central/South America.        All enrolled subjects will be contacted for follow-up at 30 days, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years post       index valve implantation. Follow-up visit at 1 year post valve implantation should be       conducted via outpatient clinic visit. Follow-up visits at 30 days and 2 through 5 years may       be conducted in person (preferred) and via telephone interview. Subjects who are not       implanted with a Lotus Valve will be followed for safety through 30 days after the initial       attempted index procedure.        Collection of safety events will include any serious adverse event (SAE) that led to death,       serious adverse device effect (SADE), adverse device effect (ADE), unanticipated serious       adverse device effect (USADE), and all Valve Academic Research Consortium (VARC) events       regardless of seriousness and device relationship through 5 year follow-up.        The RESPOND study will be conducted in accordance with the International Organization for       Standardization (ISO) 14155: 2011; ethical principles that have their origins in the       Declaration of Helsinki; the relevant parts of the International Conference on Harmonization       (ICH) Guidelines for Good Clinical Practices (GCP); and pertinent individual       country/state/local laws and regulations.        An additional cohort of approximately 50 subjects will be enrolled at up to 6 study centers       in Europe after enrollment in the main cohort is completed to assess center-driven       implantation technique with the commercially available Lotus Valve with Depth Guard       technology.
The investigators have used the Medtronic ATS cryoprobe (Argon based) since 2009 for cryomaze       procedure for treatment of atrial fibrillation combined with valvular heart disease.        However, sometimes, it was inconvenient due to excess flexibility, wide lesion related to       excess low temperature and time-consuming detachment from atrium after cryoablation. The       investigators introduced Atricure cryoprobe (Nitreos Oxide based) in hope of overcoming these       shortcomings of ATS probes last year.        Up to date, the investigators have been satisfactory in terms of the surgical convenience. On       the other hand, we have the questionability of transmural lesion of Atricure probe because of       the higher temperature of Atricure probe compared with ATS probe.        The aim of this study is compare the surgical convenience and early and long-term outcomes of       cryomaze procedure using nitrous oxide with using Argon gas.        The investigators will analyze the pathologic findings of atrial tissue after cryoablation       using two probes and early and long-term outcomes with Holter monitoring. Atrial fibrillation       burden 3 months and 1 year postoperatively and atrial activity will be checked.
This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized open-label trial including patients with       surgical aortic bioprosthetic dysfunction in the presence of a small (≤23mm; inner diameter       ≤21 mm) stented surgical valve. Following the Heart Team'S decision to proceed with a       TAVI-ViV procedure, patients will be randomized to either receive an Edwards (SAPIEN XT or       SAPIEN 3) valve or a CoreValve Evolut R or Evolut PRO system. New iterations of these valve       models may also be included.
There are around 650,000 ED syncope presentations a year in the United Kingdom (UK). Serious       underlying conditions can present with syncope and one-month serious adverse outcome is       around 7% with 50% being cardiovascular. The treating ED clinician is not always able to rule       out serious pathology as the patient is commonly fully recovered on arrival in the ED,       despite the underlying cause being potentially life threatening should it recur again. Whilst       most patients do not have a serious underlying cause and therefore do not require       hospitalisation, the concern of the ED clinician about missing a serious underlying cause       (especially cardiovascular ones) means that 50% of syncope patients are admitted to hospital.        Despite research identifying high-risk demographic, historical and examination variables,       clinical decision rules have not been well adopted due to their lack of sensitivity and       specificity probably due to the varied and heterogeneous nature of potentially serious       causes. Rather than continued attempts at risk stratification of outcome based on       presentation, more research is required into how we can better improve diagnosis and       therefore treatment in order to provide improved patient benefit.        Cardiovascular causes of syncope fall into two main categories, arrhythmia (e.g. ventricular       tachycardia (VT), 2nd degree Mobitz II, 3rd degree atrioventricular block or symptomatic       bradycardia) and structural (e.g. aortic stenosis). It is arrhythmia that is most difficult       for the ED clinician to diagnose in the ED as examination and presenting Electrocardiogram       ECG may both be normal. It is for this reason that arrhythmia makes up a large number of       subsequent serious outcomes in syncope patients whose syncopal cause is unexplained after ED       assessment.        The current main method for establishing a cardiac arrhythmia as the cause of syncope rests       on the correlation of the arrhythmia with symptoms (which will have resolved by the time the       patient gets to the ED). The clinical challenge in the ED is therefore to identify the       moderate and high-risk patients and refer them for further investigation and monitoring if       appropriate. The logistics of arranging follow up within a timely period of the patient's ED       visit is often problematic for a variety of reasons including availability of timely       specialty outpatient appointments, a lack of consensus of the specialty to whom the syncope       patient should be referred (cardiology, medicine, neurology, general practice) and       availability of Holter and other monitoring devices. For this reason most high and medium       risk patients are admitted to hospital.        The investigation of cardiac arrhythmias is usually initiated with the Holter monitor which       uses a continuous recording over a 24 or 48-hour period. The Holter allows detection of       baseline rhythm, arrhythmia and conduction abnormalities. Holters however are bulky and       inconvenient for the patient to wear, the transmission of data is not patient dependent and       non-compliance with both device use and maintaining a written symptom log, limits its       diagnostic utility. The lack of extended monitoring reduces diagnostic yield to typically       less than 20%. Bass reported a diagnostic yield of 15% with 24-hour Holter monitoring that       did not increase even if the device was applied for 72 hours.        For these reasons, the use of Holter monitors is not universal in medium and high-risk       syncope patients. In one UK ED study, only 158 of 540 (29%) admitted syncope patients       underwent 24 hour monitoring (which in the majority comprised ward telemetry rather than       Holter). There are other devices available to the Cardiologist to investigate syncope       patients who are classified as European Society of Cardiology (ESC) medium and high-risk and       whose Holter investigation is unrevealing. Event recorders do not record a continuous ECG but       require patient activation at the time of symptoms and must be applied to the chest wall at       the time of the event and must be activated by the patient. A brief, typically 90-second,       single lead ECG recording is captured and stored. Because of limited data storage capability,       data must be transmitted to a monitoring centre for validation and analysis. Event recorders       can be used for cardiac monitoring over longer periods of time but the big drawback is that       they must be activated following symptom onset, which may be difficult to achieve if the       patient has suffered syncope or an injury related to the event. Finally, these devices cannot       be used to document asymptomatic arrhythmias.        External continuous loop recorders are attached to the patient by chest electrodes or a       wristband. They continuously record the ECG but only save data if activated by the patient.       The continuous looping memory feature allows the device to store a fixed length of       pre-activation and post-event ECG data. Mobile cardiac telemetry systems provide up to 30       days of real-time continuous cardiac monitoring without the need for patient activation or       data transmission. These devices are expensive, require electrodes and bulky recording       devices, and produce a large amount of data, which requires sifting. Implantable loop       recorders are surgically implanted subcutaneous devices that continuously record single-lead       ECG signal through 2 electrodes. They are very expensive and necessitate an invasive surgical       procedure. For patients admitted to hospital and who are placed on telemetry, there is also       lack of consensus on the optimal duration of monitoring. Typically higher risk patients are       monitored for 24 hours and discharged without a diagnosis if their ECG tracing has been       uneventful during this time period.        In order to solve these problems, a novel ambulatory cardiac monitoring device that can       easily be applied to ED patients has recently been developed. The ZIO®XT Patch (iRhythm       Technologies, Inc. San Francisco, California; http://www.irhythmtech.com/zio-services.php) is       non-invasive, water-resistant, has no leads or wires, is discrete to wear and has been       approved for clinical use in the UK. It continuously monitors the heart for up to 14 days       including during sleep, in the shower, and during moderate exercise and has a large button on       top for patients to capture symptomatic events. When patients reach the end of their       monitoring period, they simply mail the device back to the company where analysis is       undertaken.        The ZIO®XT Patch is well tolerated for prolonged monitoring and compliance is excellent with       studies demonstrating a mean monitoring wear time of 10.8 days (range 4-14 days) and 10.9       days (median 13.0 days). Barrett et al showed that 80% of patients who had worn a Holter       monitor for 24 hours, and a ZIO®XT Patch for up to 14 days, preferred the ZIO Patch. Single       channel ECG data quality is also excellent with one study showing more than 98% of the total       recording time was analysable, and a second study showing a median analysable time of 99% of       the total wear time. Compliance with returning the device is also good. In a study of 174 ED       with indications for monitoring (syncope, dizziness and palpitations), all patients mailed       back their devices.        Several studies have shown that ZIO®XT Patch has a higher diagnostic yield for arrhythmias       than traditional 24-48 hour Holter monitoring and importantly can also efficiently       characterise symptomatic patients without significant arrhythmia. The absence of an       arrhythmia during syncope, palpitations or a triggered event does not by itself provide a       definitive diagnosis but does allow the clinician to exclude an arrhythmia as a potential       cause and is thus clinically useful. Over half of patients (53.4%) in one study did not have       an arrhythmia despite a triggered event. This allows the clinician to potentially exclude an       arrhythmia as an etiology of the patient's symptoms and potentially avoid further cardiac       evaluation.        Camm et al showed in a study on patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia       (ARVD), that over the total wear time of both devices, the ZIO®XT Patch detected more       premature ventricular contraction events than a 24 hour Holter monitor. Barrett et al showed       ZIO®XT Patch had a 57% greater diagnostic yield than a 24 hour Holter monitor, and Schreiber       at al demonstrated an overall diagnostic yield of 63% in ED patients with indications for       monitoring. This study also showed that 48% of patients had ≥1 arrhythmia and 10% were       symptomatic at the time of their arrhythmia. Median time to first arrhythmia was 1.0 days       (IQR 0.2-2.8) and median time to first symptomatic arrhythmia was 1.5 days (IQR 0.4-6.7). 54%       of symptomatic patients did not have any arrhythmia during their triggered events.        In a study looking at ZIO®XT Patch use in outpatients with clinical indications for       monitoring (15% of whom had syncope), of the 60% of patients who had an arrhythmia detected,       30% had their first arrhythmia and 51% had their first symptom-triggered arrhythmia occur       after the initial 48-hour period. Mean time to first arrhythmia was 1.7 days (median 0.8) and       mean time to first symptomatic arrhythmia was 3.0 days (median 2.1).        This novel ambulatory cardiac monitoring device should allow much earlier arrhythmia       detection in more patients allowing better diagnosis and subsequent treatment.
70 patients with heart failure, AF and CRT with BiV<95% will be recruited from outpatient       clinic, pacing clinic or inpatient wards. Patients will be consented and will undergo       baseline investigation with a transthoracic 2D echocardiogram, ECG, blood tests, cardiac CT       with perfusion imaging, 6 minute walk test (6MWT), cardio-pulmonary exercise test (CPET) and       Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire. Patients who are successfully screened       will be randomized 1:1 to receive AF catheter ablation rhythm control or AV-node ablation       rate control.        Ablation Procedure:        Patients will receive either AF catheter ablation or AV-node ablation during the procedure.       Patients randomised to AF catheter ablation will receive isolation of all four pulmonary       veins and additional lesions, considered indicated by the operator. The procedure will be       classified as successful if all four veins are isolated and the patient is in sinus rhythm.       Patients may undergo DC-cardioversion under sedation if they remain in atrial fibrillation.       AV-node ablation will be performed in line with current standard of care. Patients will also       undergo additional research investigations at the time of ablation as follows:        Acute Haemodynamic Study:        All patients will also undergo an acute haemodynamic study with pressure wire assessment of       both the right ventricle and the left ventricle at the start and end of the procedure. This       involves inserting pressure wires into the RV via a vein in the groin and into the LV via an       artery in the wrist or the groin. This will provide novel information on how AF catheter       ablation and AV-node ablation affect cardiac contractility.        Invasive Electroanatomical Mapping (Optional):        This is an optional additional procedure that patients may opt into at the time of       recruitment. This is performed during the ablation procedure with mapping catheters and       software which are CE marked and already in clinical use. Mapping of all four cardiac       chambers will be performed. This will be achieved via a vein and an artery in the groin. This       will provide novel information on how AF catheter ablation and AV-node ablation affect       electrical activation of the atria and ventricles.        Follow-up:        Patients will undergo a 2D transthoracic echocardiogram and ECG 1 week post ablation.       Patients will then be followed up at 6 months with 2D transthoracic echocardiogram, ECG,       clinical review, CPET, 6MWT, Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire and pacing       check.        Patients in the AF catheter ablation group who have a recurrence of AF after a 3 month       blanking period will be permitted a re-do procedure. The follow-up investigations will take       place 6 months after the re-do procedure. If a patient has recurrence of AF after a second       ablation procedure and it is felt a third procedure is indicated, this will be performed       after the six month follow-up period has ended and the patient is no longer in the study.       They will be included in the intention-to-treat analysis.
The surveillance/recruitment period will take approximately 2 years and once the enrolment of       HZ patients has ended, the study will continue for a maximum of 9 months to allow for       completion of the follow-up of potential PHN cases.        The data will be captured at protocol specified time-points based on the time of enrolment of       each subject.
The INSPIRIS RESILIA Aortic Valve™ is a stented tri-leaflet valve comprised of bovine       pericardial tissue. The tissue is created by treating bovine pericardial tissue with Edwards       Integrity Preservation. It incorporates a stable capping anticalcification process, which       blocks residual aldehyde groups known to bind with calcium. Tissue preservation with glycerol       allows the valve to be stored without a traditional liquid-based solution, such as       glutaraldehyde. Therefore, valve is stored under dry packaging conditions and consequently       does not require rinsing prior to implantation.        The novel tissue preservation technology significantly improves hemodynamic and       anticalcification properties compared with the standard Perimount valve in an ovine model       (Flameng et al., 2015). The RESILIA tissue has been studied in the COMMENCE trial: Two year       data show that the NYHA class improved in 65.7% of patients, effective orifice area after       implantation was 1.6 ± 0.5 cm2; mean gradient was 10.1 ± 4.3 mmHg; and paravalvular leak was       none/trivial in 94.5% of patients (mild to moderate in 0.5%) (Puskas et al., 2017).        On the sizes 19 - 25 mm the INSPIRIS RESILIA Aortic Valve™ has been outfitted with the VFit       technology, which incorporates two novel features designed for potential future       valve-in-valve procedures: fluoroscopically visible size markers and an expandable cobalt       chromium alloy band. No clinical data are available that evaluate the use of the INSPIRIS       RESILIA Aortic Valve™ in patients to date.
nan
Forty subjects followed in a University Heart Failure Management Program were prospectively       included. All patients were evaluated before the randomization and after 24 weeks from       enrollment. The investigators performed a detailed anamnesis and complete physical       examination, Doppler echocardiography, Stress Testing, 6-minute walk test, heart rate       variability analysis, and quality of life test. Patients were randomized either to a training       group: performing a supervised training program, or a control group receiving usual care. All       patients received an optimal pharmacologic treatment including diuretics, angiotensin       converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers and beta-adrenergic blocking       agents. All patients included in the training group attended a supervised program 3-days/week       during 24 weeks (68-74 sessions). Physical aerobic training appears to impart beneficial       changes in autonomic control of patients with chronic heart failure through both       parasympathetic and sympathetic control of hear rate. These effects produce changes in       several Heart Rate Variability indices as HF and rMSSD related with parasympathetic tone.
The operative mortality is a key point of the risk-to-benefit ratio analysis before       considering cardiac surgery. Operative risk evaluation in a single surgical center is a part       of medical care quality assessment. It must be interpreted in the light of the local       specificities, in particular the characteristics of the patients and the types of surgery.       The local database results from a joint initiative of anesthesic, cardiology and cardiac       surgery departements.Its purpose is to record in an exhaustive fashion all the interventions       of cardiac surgery performed under extracorporeal circulation in adults at Bichat       hospital.This database includes the preoperative characteristics of the patients, the type of       surgery, the post-operative complications and the in-hospital mortality. The purpose of this       observational study is to evaluate in-hospital morbidity and mortality according to the       characteristics of the patients and the type of intervention. study population : inclusion       criteria : patient 18 years or older with legal capacity, patients with non-objection to       record his/her medical data during hospitalization. Methods: this is an observational       prospective and monocentric study. The main objective is to report in-hospital mortality for       all types of cardiac surgery performed in Bichat hospital . The secondary objectives are :1)       to collect post-operative complications such as hemorrhagic or thromboembolic events or       surgery site infections; 2) to analyze mortality rate and post-operative morbidities       according to the type of surgery and the main patients' characteristics . 3) to calculate       validated and currents risk score such as EuroSCORE I and II for each patient.
BACKGROUND & RATIONALE: The conventional approach to heart valve operations is open-heart       surgery. This involves a vertical incision along the sternum (breastbone) and splitting it in       half to gain access to the heart and its related structures. Open-heart surgery provides       maximal exposure of the heart to the surgeon and results in good clinical outcome. However,       post-operative recovery after open-heart surgery can take anywhere from 6 weeks to 3 months       due to the time required for the sternum to fully heal. During this time patients can       experience considerable pain and reduced mobility which have a significant negative impact on       quality of life and productivity. Patients are also prone to major sternal complications such       as wound opening and sternal infection, all of which may compromise respiratory function and       overall recovery.        Minimally invasive valve surgery is a less invasive alternative to open-heart surgery. At the       Foothills Medical Centre, surgeons perform minimally invasive valve surgery through a       technique called right mini-thoracotomy. This involves a small incision on the right upper       chest and leaves the sternum fully intact. This approach has been increasingly favoured and       adopted by patients and physicians due to the benefits of avoiding sternal complications       associated with open-heart surgery as well as cosmetic benefits. Despite these benefits, it       is still unclear whether minimally invasive valve surgery provides better clinical outcomes       and quality of life compared to conventional open-heart surgery.        RESEARCH QUESTION & OBJECTIVES: The aim of this observational research study is to assess the       post-operative functional recovery and clinical outcomes of minimally invasive valve surgery       via right mini-thoracotomy and conventional surgery via full median sternotomy. The       objectives of this study are:          1. To assess post-operative functional recovery in minimally invasive and conventional            valve surgery patients by assessing recovery of respiratory function, pain, physical            function, and quality of life back to baseline.          2. To assess post-operative complications in minimally invasive and conventional valve            surgery patients by assessing the incidence of early mortality, stroke, post-operative            atrial fibrillation, permanent pacemaker implantation, paravalvular leak, pulmonary            complication, wound infection, acute kidney injury, and reoperation.          3. To assess post-operative valve function in minimally invasive and conventional valve            surgery patients by assessing valve gradients and degree of leakage.          4. To assess perioperative support for minimally invasive and conventional valve surgery            patients by assessing ventilation time, cardiopulmonary bypass time, cross-clamp time,            amount of blood transfusion, analgesic requirements, and length of ICU and hospital            stay.        METHODS: The proposed clinical study is a single-center, prospective cohort study. All       participants will undergo data collection procedures over a 12-month follow-up period.       Specifically, data regarding demographics, medical history, and medications will be       collected, and spirometry testing with a hand-held spirometer will be performed at baseline.       Patients will be evaluated in hospital on post-op Day 3 and at discharge for pain,       analgesic/antibiotic use, wound healing, any clinical events, quality of life (EQ-5D), and       spirometry. Subsequently, patients will return to hospital for follow-up visits post       operatively for physical examination, interview, additional quality of life questionnaires       (EQ-5D, KCCQ-23, Health Assessment Questionnaire), and spirometry testing at 2 weeks, 6       weeks, and 3 months after surgery, with a final phone interview at 12 months.
nan
Some people with heart disease and a weak heart muscle experience abnormal electrical       activity of the heart that may predispose them to sudden death. In light of this risk, it has       been recommended that such patients undergo implantation of an implantable cardioverter       defibrillator (ICD). Your doctors have determined that you are such a patient and are to       undergo implantation of an ICD. It is unclear who among the many patients who undergo ICD       implantation for this reason are at greatest risk of sudden death and therefore require       electrical response from their ICD. This research is being done to determine whether new       imaging tests, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or multi-detector computed tomography       (MDCT), can be used to predict who is at highest risk of sudden death and require electrical       response from their ICD.
This is a single center, phase II trial where after a process of stem cell mobilization and       conditioning, adult subjects receive a CD34-selected autologous peripheral blood stem cell       rescue. By virtue of positive selection for the stem/progenitor cell marker of CD34, the       graft will be at least 3-log depleted for T, B and NK lymphocytes and other immune cells such       as monocytes that may be pathogenic. This is an open label study and there will be no       randomization or blinding as a part of this study.        The proposed regimen of high-dose immunoablative therapy will demonstrate safety that is       consistent or improved with other published regimens in SSc patients, while maintaining a       treatment effect. We also hypothesize that our mechanistic studies will yield biomarkers that       may herald disease recurrence or progression following alterations in the recovery of immune       cells in the skin and/or bronchial lavage or blood.        The primary objectives of this study are to determine the safety and treatment effect of       high-dose immunoablative therapy followed by transplantation of CD34+ positively selected       peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) for systemic scleroderma (SSc) patients using a regimen       designed to maximize patient safety while also aiming to eradicate autoreactive clones       responsible for the disease. Safety will be determined by monitoring for death of any cause,       regimen-related toxicities, and severe or life-threatening infections. Treatment effect will       be determined by assessing event-free survival in comparison to a SSc observational cohort       control group treated with standard of care medication (mycophenolate mofetil) at 12 and 36       months post hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Enrolled subjects will be followed for       survival, secondary malignancies, and SSC activity at least yearly up to 36 months post-HSCT.        The secondary objectives of this study are to:          -  To assess cutaneous disease response to high dose immunosuppressive therapy (HDIT) by            comparing pre- and post-transplant measurements of the modified Rodnan skin score            (mRSS).          -  To assess pulmonary disease response by longitudinally tracking FVC (pulmonary function            test) and DLCO (diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide) yearly up to 36            months post-HSCT.          -  To evaluate the treatment effect on disease activity/progression, as indicated by            severity measures of cardiac, pulmonary and renal organ involvement, and need for            concomitant disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) use.          -  To evaluate quality of life by comparing pre- and post-transplant quality of life            measurements. These measurements will include the Scleroderma Health Assessment            Questionnaire (SHAQ), the Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health            Survey (SF-36) and the Scleroderma Skin Patient Reported Outcome (SSPRO) pre- and            post-mobilization.        The research (mechanistic) objectives are as follows:          -  Understand the effect of the combination of rituximab and alemtuzumab on lymphocyte            subsets and myeloid cells in the skin of patients undergoing treatment.          -  Understand the effect of total body irradiation (TBI) and Thiotepa on subsets of            lymphocytes and myeloid cells in the skin of patients undergoing treatment.          -  Understand the relationship between the response of patient skin disease to depletion            and repopulation of skin leukocyte subpopulations and gene expression.          -  Characterize the evolution of humoral and cellular immune markers of autoreactivity in            blood and BAL (bronchoalveolar lavage)when feasible
Patients are enrolled in the registry up to 180 days post implantation of an Optim lead.       Patients with Optim™ ICD leads and Quicksite®/Quickflex®/Quickflex® µ/Quartet® LV leads are       followed indefinitely following enrollment. Patients with other Optim leads are followed for       a period of 60 months after Optim™ lead implantation. The follow-up plan for this registry is       based on the established follow-up practices currently used by each of the respective       registry centers. Patients are followed according to the center's standard follow-up       schedule.        At each office/clinic follow-up visit standard electrical measurements are collected. During       system revision in a patient with either Optim™ ICD leads, Quicksite®, Quickflex®, Quickflex®       µ or Quartet® LV lead, cinefluoroscopy (AP, LAO 45° or the best possible LAO view, RAO 45° or       the best possible RAO view) should be performed at specific study sites. If cinefluoroscopy       or chest X-ray is performed according to the site's standard of care then copies of those       should be submitted.
nan
The SyncAV Post-Market Trial is designed as a prospective, randomized, multi-center trial.       The trial will require physicians to implant an Abbott CRT device and Abbott Quadripolar LV       lead with any available right atrial and right ventricular leads. Sites will randomize       subjects in a 1:1 ratio within 2 - 6 weeks post successful CRT implant: Arm 1 - SyncAV CRT       programmed ON; Arm 2 - programmed fixed atrioventricular (AV) delay.        For those subjects randomized to SyncAV programmed ON, sites will measure QRS duration with       the subject's intrinsic rhythm (pacing OFF), at biventricular (BiV) pacing nominal settings,       with various SyncAV programmed offsets, and at LV first 30 ms, RV first 30 ms and LV-only       pacing with optimal SyncAV offsets. The site will then program the subject's device using the       SyncAV offset that provided the narrowest QRS duration.        For those subjects randomized to the fixed AV delay arm, sites will measure QRS duration with       the subject's intrinsic rhythm (pacing OFF) and at BiV pacing nominal settings. Sites will       then program the subject's device using BiV pacing nominal settings.        Sites will collect data at baseline (before CRT implant), randomization, and at 3-month,       6-month, and 12-month visits. For subjects randomized to the SyncAV ON arm, sites will       optimize the SyncAV feature again at 3 months and 6 months in the same manner as the       randomization visit.
nan
Patients with severe native aortic valve regurgitation (AR) who have symptoms, impaired LVEF       (≤55%) or left ventricular enlargement have the indications for surgery. According to data       from the Euro Heart Survey, only 21.8% with LVEF 30-50% and 2.7% with LVEF <30% were referred       for surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) among patients with severe native aortic       regurgitation. Advanced age and comorbidities were often considered as main reasons to refuse       SAVR. The annual mortality of untreated patients with severe AR is 10-20%. Pure native AR is       always an exclusion criterion in all randomized controlled trials on transcatheter aortic       valve implantation (TAVR) because the specific anatomical features can preclude adequate       valve implantation. Several small, retrospective studies showed that off-label use of TAVR       appears to be a feasible treatment choice for AR patients at high risk for SAVR. The present       study aims to investigate the use of TAVR in AR patients.
nan
The objective of this study is to evaluate the long term safety and effectiveness of the       CE-marked JenaValve System Transapical in an elderly patient population with severe aortic       stenosis and/or aortic insufficiency who are at high risk for open surgical aortic valve       replacement.        The target study population will consist of elderly patients suffering from severe       symptomatic degenerative aortic valve stenosis and/or aortic insufficiency who show an       increased risk for an open aortic valve replacement surgery due to existing co-morbidities.
nan
It is a randomized, open-label, multi-centre trial in which patients with symptomatic       paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation will be randomized to treatment with either       catheter ablation for pulmonary vein isolation or optimized conventional pharmacological       therapy. Patients will receive an implantable cardiac monitor, Reveal XT, implanted       subcutaneously, before a two month "Run-in" period from which the basic atrial fibrillation       burden will be defined, which will provide an objective basis to assess the AF burden for 3       years.        After initiation of randomized therapy, patients will be followed at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30,       36 and 48 months. In case of intolerable symptomatic atrial fibrillation despite allocated       treatment, subjects will be switched to the alternative regimen, on patient's request.        The ablation will consist of pulmonary vein isolation for both paroxysmal and persistent       atrial fibrillation. A linear lesion at the left atrial roof is optional for patients with       recurrence after a first procedure or primarily for patients with persistent atrial       fibrillation only. A second ablation procedure may be undertaken at earliest 3 months after       the first procedure, if symptoms persists or recurs. Epicardial off-pump ablation may be       offered after failed attempts of transvenous catheter ablation at earliest 3 months after       latest procedure. If the second transvenous ablation procedure fails, patients may be offered       i) a third transvenous ablation procedure or ii) an epicardial off-pump procedure. In case       the patient declines a third intervention despite recurrence, the patient should continue on       the same anti-arrhythmic drugs. If new previously untested drugs are prescribed, the patient       will be defined as a change of treatment (and failed ablation). Ablation may be performed       using radiofrequency energy with irrigated tip or with cryo-energy using the Arctic Front™       Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter. A complete pulmonary vein isolation will be defined by       documenting PV entrance block in each vein using a circular mapping catheter.        Anti-arrhythmic drugs remaining to be tested for rate and rhythm control may include       previously tested tolerable antiarrhythmic drugs if dosages were inadequate. Optimized       anti-arrhythmic drug therapy includes testing of all available anti-arrhythmic drugs at       adequate dosages, including amiodarone 600 mg once daily for 7-10 days, and 100-200 mg once       daily thereafter; sotalol: 80-160 mg twice daily; flecainide 100 to 150 mg twice daily or the       entire dose as slow-release formula once daily; propafenone 300 mg twice daily; and       disopyramide 250-375mg twice daily, and potentially new antiarrhythmic drugs commercially       available during the study period.        A monitor will verify that data recorded on the procedure forms are correct through quarterly       communication, review of catheterization reports and medical records. In accordance with       applicable regulations a monitor (study nurse from Uppsala) will contact the site prior to       the start of the study to review with the site staff protocol, study requirements and their       responsibilities to satisfy study requirements, if needed. When reviewing data collection       procedures the discussion will also include identification, agreement and documentation of       data items for which the case record forms (CRF), patient files (paper or database), tracings       of investigations, and questionnaires, will serve a source document. The investigator and the       head of the medical institution agrees should allow the monitor direct access to all relevant       documents whenever needed and in an event of an audit. To ensure compliance the monitor may       conduct a quality assurance audit, which can occur at any time during or after completion of       the study.        The Biometrics section at Uppsala Clinical Research Centre is responsible for the Data       Management. All data will be recorded in the CRFs and entered via eCRF directly into a web       based data capturing system except for electronically available data that will be loaded       directly into the study database. Each investigational site will have authorized site       personnel responsible for entering the data, as well as for changing and correcting the data       according to instructions provided by Uppsala Clinical Research Centre (UCR) and the       coordinating centre. All changes will be tracked by an audit trail. The site specific       investigator will sign the eCRF electronically when the data have been reviewed and edited,       and Source Data Verification has been performed.        The Database Closure will be performed in three steps, the first one when all data from the       first 12 months are entered, the second one when all data from the 24 months period are       entered and the third when the complete study period of 48 months are entered. All datasets       used for the 12- and 24 months analyses will be locked separately. Procedures: When all data       are entered into the database and all queries solved, the Database Closure procedures will       start.        Complications are defined as acute if occurring within 1 week after initialized therapy, and       late if occurring one week after initialized therapy. All "Serious adverse events" should be       documented on the "Adverse events Form" AND "Serious adverse events Form". All " Adverse       events" should be documented in the "Adverse events Form". All events which are part of       performing a catheterization procedure will be reported. All serious unanticipated events       whether or not they are considered to be related to the procedure but which have some       association with the catheterization either by timing or physiology, will be reported. Other       bleedings than major bleeding events should be reported as minor bleeds. All events related       to pharmacological therapy will be reported.        Procedural complications are defined as those arising during or within 1 month of the       procedure, including death, major bleeding, vascular injury, cerebrovascular accident,       myocardial infarction, pericardial effusion with or without tamponade, venous or systemic       embolism, phrenic nerve paralysis, and heart block. Events occurring later than 1 month after       the procedure and defined as related to the procedure are pulmonary vein stenosis, tamponade,       retroperitoneal haematoma, and atrio-esophageal fistula (see below).        Relation to Device Procedure or drug, Intensity, Outcome and Actions taken will be described       according to international regulations.        Statistical methods. All continuous variables will be presented per treatment group using       descriptive statistics by mean, SD, max and min values, in addition medians, 25th and 75th       percentiles will be presented when suitable.        The analysis of mean change in the primary endpoint will be two-sided and performed as an       unpaired t-test at 5% significance level. The difference between the treatment groups with       corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval based on a normal approximation will be       presented. The continuous secondary endpoints will be analyzed in the same way as the primary       endpoint, but the results will be interpreted descriptively. Kaplan-Meier estimates and       log-rank test will be used to determine the occurrence of the secondary endpoints over time.       All categorical secondary endpoints will be compared between treatment groups with frequency       tables and Fisher's Exact Test including 95% confidence intervals where possible. Adverse       Events will be summarized per treatment group by body system/system organ class, preferred       terms, intensity, seriousness and relationship. Laboratory data for efficacy will be       presented in mean change tables.        The null hypothesis (H0) is that the difference in the mean change from baseline to 12 months       after baseline in General Health between the two treatments is zero;- mean change for the       treatment group catheter ablation (μ 1) and - mean change for the treatment group optimized       conventional pharmacological therapy (μ 2) Safety - All randomized patients will be included       in the safety analysis. Only observed observations are used in the safety analysis.        Intention to treat (ITT) - All randomized patients. The main analysis will be performed on       the ITT-population.        Per protocol (PP) - All randomized patients completing the study treatment period of 12       months without any major protocol violation (for example ineligibility, early withdrawals,       poor compliance).        A subgroup analysis will determine whether sinus rhythm obtained by AF ablation is superior       to sinus rhythm obtained by pharmacological therapy for rate and/or rhythm control. In       addition a comparison will be done between patients with sinus rhythm and patients with       atrial fibrillation irrespective of allocated therapy. Both analyses will be performed with       regard to quality of life, morbidity (composite, see secondary endpoint 1), cardiovascular       hospitalizations, exercise/ physical capacity, safety, and health economy at 12 and 24       months.        All continuous variables will be presented per treatment group using descriptive statistics       by mean, standard deviation, max and min values, in addition medians, 25th and 75th       percentiles will be presented when suitable. The analysis of mean change in the primary       endpoint will be two-sided and performed as an unpaired t-test at 5% significance level. The       difference between the treatment groups with corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval       based on a normal approximation will be presented.        The continuous secondary endpoints will be analyzed in the same way as the primary endpoint,       but the results will be interpreted descriptively.        Kaplan-Meier estimates and log-rank test will be used to determine the occurrence of the       secondary endpoints over time. All categorical secondary endpoints will be compared between       treatment groups with frequency tables and Fisher's Exact Test including 95% confidence       intervals where possible. Adverse Events will be summarized per treatment group by body       system/system organ class, preferred terms, intensity, seriousness and relationship.        Sample size considerations: The primary endpoint is the change in General Health from       baseline to 12 months after baseline. Based on previous studies it is assumed that the       variable is normally distributed with a standard deviation for the change in General Health       of 20 units and an expected difference between groups of at least 10.5 units. To detect a       difference of 10.5 units in General Health (corresponding to an improvement of 15%, assuming       a mean General Health of 70 units in the conventional pharmacological therapy group) with a       power of 80% and a type I error of 5% (two-sided alternative), a sample size of approximately       58 subjects in each treatment group is required, i.e. a total number of 116 patients. Another       20 patients are added to ensure calculated number of patients for analysis at 12 months. The       power to detect a difference of 10.5 for 136 (116+20) and 140 (the minimum expected total       number) patients is 85% and 86%, respectively.        A 1:1 block randomization will be used within each centre, stratifying patients between       paroxysmal and persistent AF.
nan
ACURATE neo2 PMCF is a prospective, open-label, single-arm, multicenter, observational       post-market surveillance study. All subjects deemed treatable with the ACURATE neo2 valve       will be approached to participate in the study.        A subject who provides an Informed Consent Form (ICF) approved by the Independent Ethics       Committee (IEC) and signed by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative       is considered enrolled once an attempt is made to insert the commercially available ACURATE       neo2 Transfemoral Delivery System. Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled.        Follow-up will occur at pre-discharge, 30 days, 1 year, and then annually from 2 through 5       years post index procedure per standard of care. Visits are in-person through 1 year and       in-person (preferred) or via telephone interview in years 2 through 5. All subjects will       undergo 4D computed tomography (CT) imaging at 30 days and 1 year.        ACURATE neo2 PMCF Study Design Overview Abbreviations: CT=computed tomography; ICF=Informed       Consent Form
nan
Persistent atrial fibrillation (PeAF) is defined as continuous atrial fibrillation for 7 days       or more. Approximately 10% of people are diagnosed with atrial fibrillation (AF) by age 80       years; and among people of European descent, 26% of men and 23% of women have a lifetime risk       of developing AF after age 40.        Catheter ablation by pulmonary vein isolation is the usual approach employed for PeAF. This       involves making lesions within the pulmonary veins to achieve electrical isolation.       Electrical isolation cuts off abnormal electrical triggers originating from the pulmonary       veins. However, treatment outcomes are less than optimal with a lot of variability in success       rates for different techniques. Hence, the optimal treatment strategy for patients with PeAF       is not clear.        In this pilot study, investigators aim to study two different treatment modalities of       catheter ablation: cold balloon (cryoballoon, Group 1) and hot tip (radiofrequency ablation,       Group 2) used in (electrically) isolating the pulmonary veins. There will be 1:1       randomisation to either of the two modalities. All participants will subsequently undergo a       repeat procedure 2 months later to identify reconnections and to re-isolate the veins using       the hot tip (radiofrequency ablation) guided by an ultra-high density mapping technology.       During the repeat procedure, investigators will perform further electrophysiological studies       including assessing arrhythmia inducibility and measuring the extent of isolated areas. For       participants in Group 2, investigators will also make some lesions in the back wall of the       heart (posterior wall isolation) and recheck arrhythmia inducibility.        All participants will be given a handheld ECG recording (Omron) device. Participants will be       shown how to use the device to make daily 30-second recordings and when they have symptoms,       to be reviewed. Follow up will be at 3, 6 and 12 months.
Syncope is defined as a sudden, transient loss of consciousness followed by spontaneous       complete recovery.14 It is caused by transient global cerebral hypoperfusion due to decreased       cardiac output, excessive vasodilatation, or both. The most common causes include a)reflex       (i.e., vasovagal syncope); b)cardiac syncope; and c)orthostatic hypotension. Syncope accounts       for 1-3% of ED visits and ~6% of admissions from the ED to hospital. Each year, syncope       accounts for approximately 160,000 ED visits in Canada, with direct hospital costs of       approximately $130 million.        ED management of syncope: Overall, up to 10% of patients seen in the ED for syncope will have       serious underlying conditions e.g., serious arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, significant       hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism] identified and/or die from these conditions within the next       30 days. Until recently, valid and reliable evidence to inform these decisions has been       lacking. Professional medical societies in Europe and North America have long called for the       development of practical and accurate tools to stratify patients into low, intermediate, and       high-risk groups to aid in management decisions. One-third to half of these serious       conditions will be identified ONLY AFTER they are either discharged from the ED or       hospitalized in an inpatient unit, emphasizing the challenge in risk-stratification and ED       disposition decision-making. Of these serious conditions that are identified after ED       disposition, 68.8% are arrhythmias. While the non-arrhythmias are identified in the first few       days after the ED visit , arrhythmias tend to be identified up to two weeks after the ED       visit. The hypothesis is that prolonged live cardiac rhythm monitoring of at-risk ED syncope       patients, defined as those with CSRS score ≥3 discharged from the ED, will lead to       identification of important arrhythmia or ruling out an arrhythmic etiology and consequently       to improved patient safety and lower healthcare costs.        Preliminary work: Two large multicentre prospective studies were completed to derive and       validate the Canadian Syncope Risk Score (CSRS) by enrolling 8176 patients from 11 Canadian       EDs in whom no serious condition was identified during the index ED evaluation. The CSRS was       developed conforming to both methodological standards for clinical decision tool development       and reported as per the Transparent Reporting of a Multivariable Prediction Model for       Individual Prognosis or Diagnosis (TRIPOD) guideline. Overall, 9.0% of patients were       hospitalized and 3.6% suffered 30-day serious outcomes after ED disposition. The CSRS score       ranges from -3 to +11. The risk categories were simplified into low, medium, and high, and       the 30-day serious outcomes for each of the three risk categories. The incidence of       arrhythmias in the medium and high-risk groups were 4.9% and 18.0% respectively. Given the       importance of occult arrhythmia and uncertainty regarding the optimal duration of cardiac       monitoring, the time interval was analyzed from ED arrival to arrhythmias       detection/intervention or unexplained death and found that half of all arrhythmic outcomes       were identified within 2 hours among low-risk patients and within 6 hours among medium- and       high-risk patients. Furthermore, the more serious, ventricular arrhythmias occurred only in       medium and high-risk patients, and 92% of all arrhythmias among these risk groups were       identified within 15 days. These latencies are highly relevant to decisions regarding the       utility of cardiac monitoring during and after an ED visit for syncope, with implications for       the rational deployment of emerging technology such as outpatient telemetry which permits       real-time identification of serious arrhythmias. The above inferences regarding cardiac       rhythm monitoring are based on the secondary analysis of observational data. There are no       previous randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that assess the role of outpatient prolonged       cardiac monitoring to detect occult arrhythmias among CSRS medium and high-risk syncope       patients discharged from the ED.        There is a wide variations in ED management, including admission rates (range from 5.3% to       19.6% among sites) and outpatient cardiac testing, very low yield for advanced neuroimaging,       and inefficiencies in hospital admission (among those hospitalized, 46.5% were for suspected       arrhythmias, of whom 71.2% had no cause for syncope identified during hospitalization.       Analyzing our cohort, the study found that CSRS low-risk patients will benefit the least from       hospitalization and CSRS high risk patients the most. Currently, 21.6% of CSRS medium-risk       patients are hospitalized primarily because of concern for underlying arrhythmia, yet the       mortality and the likelihood of identifying an underlying ventricular arrhythmia within 30       days among these patients is very low. Advances in ambulatory cardiac rhythm monitoring       suggest that this group is an ideal target for outpatient monitoring, forgoing hospital.       admission after ED assessment. A pilot study was recently with 15-day out of hospital live       cardiac rhythm monitoring of 72 CSRS medium and high-risk patients and found that live       cardiac monitoring of at-risk ED syncope patients is feasible, safe, and acceptable.        Hypothesis: the study hypothesize that a strategy of prolonged outpatient cardiac rhythm       monitoring compared to usual care of at-risk syncope patients, defined as those with CSRS       score ≥3 when discharged from the ED will lead to improved detection of arrhythmias that       require treatment and improve patient safety, healthcare efficiency and patient satisfaction.       What are the principal research questions to be addressed? The overall objective of this       study is to evaluate a strategy of 15-day live cardiac rhythm monitoring versus usual care at       improving the identification of an arrhythmia that required treatment among at-risk syncope       patients discharged from the ED through a patient level RCT.        The overall objective of this study is to evaluate a strategy of 15-day live cardiac rhythm       monitoring versus usual care at improving the identification of an arrhythmia that required       treatment among at-risk syncope patients discharged from the ED through a patient level RCT.        Trial Design: prospective patient-level multi-center RCT involving 13 participating EDs       across Canada. During the trial period, syncope patients will be block randomized to usual       care or prolonged outpatient cardiac rhythm monitoring in blocks of variable sizes and       stratified by risk scores (3-5, ≥6) and study site.        Patients randomized to usual care will receive all care as prescribed by the discharging       physician and there will be no study specific interventions. Patients randomized to the       intervention arm will receive 24/7 live cardiac rhythm monitoring for 15 days (cardiophone;       an external loop recorder). If a patient is randomized to the intervention arm and was       prescribed outpatient cardiac monitoring such as Holter monitor, this will be replaced by the       24/7 live monitoring and will be applied either prior or within 24 hours of discharge from       the ED. As the intervention arm provides 24/7 live cardiac monitoring which is a higher level       of care than the control arm, there is no safety risk to the patients in the intervention       arm. Cardiophone evaluates all cardiac beats and rhythm abnormalities that are detected as       per the algorithm programmed into the device. These abnormalities are then automatically and       immediately transmitted to a central monitoring station without the need of any patient       intervention (device-triggered transmission). Additionally, the cardiac rhythm can also be       transmitted to the monitoring station immediately in the event the patient experiences       symptoms, by the touch of a button on the device (patient-triggered transmission). The       central monitoring station is in Windsor, Ontario (Canadian Cardiac Care) and is staffed       round the clock by certified electrocardiographic technicians and a cardiologist on-call.        Timeline and follow up: the study timeline is 18 months of patient enrollment and data       collection. The duration of treatment period for patients in the intervention arm will       receive 15 days of cardiac monitoring. All study patients will be followed at 30 days either       by telephone or email and at 1-year through data linkage with provincial health database.        Embedded observational study: validation of the CSRS ultra-low-risk criteria and to evaluate       if the CSRS can be updated to improve its accuracy, ED physician to obtain verbal consent       from patients who are lower risk (score <3) for 30-day follow-up and addition of cardiac       biomarker using the left-over blood at study centers that are able to accomplish such       additional testing for research purposes. These patients will not be enrolled in the       randomized controlled trial.
nan
This is an international multicenter, prospective, non-randomized clinical investigation       without concurrent or matched control, designed to assess the mid-term safety and performance       of the Portico valve in patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis whom are high risk       for surgical valve replacement. The primary endpoint is 1 year all-cause mortality. In       addition, the performance and safety profile of the Portico valve will be further evaluated       at 30 days, 1 year, and annually through 5 years post-implant.        The investigation will be conducted at approximately 65 centers in approximately 15 countries       in Europe, Middle-East, Africa, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
This is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, observational, post-market registry study.       The purpose is to evaluate the safety, performance, and effectiveness of the VitaFlow™       Transcatheter Aortic Valve System in the real world settings.Patients will be seen at pre and       post procedure, discharge, 30 days, 1 year and annually up to 5 years.
Delirium occurs in about 25% of patients after cardiac surgery. It is an independent factor       of poor outcome and recovery after ICU stay as it is associated with mortality and impaired       mental function one year after its onset. It is associated with increased public health costs       during the hospital stay and after.        The use of Dexmedetomidine as sedative medication is more and more described. It is well       established that it can lower delirium onset comparatively to Midazolam or Propofol. It is       also useful in agitated delirium as a complementary medication to reduce delirium duration. A       study published by Su et al in 2016 assessed the efficacy of Dexmedetomidine in prevention of       post-surgical delirium for patients older than 65 years after non cardiac surgery. Patients       were mainly admitted in the ICU after abdominal surgery for malignant tumor. Dexmedetomidine       was used at very low dose to promote sleep during ICU stay. In this study the onset of       delirium was significantly lowered by one half for the first week after surgery. However,       this study only focused on older patients and non-cardiac surgery population with short       mechanical ventilation duration, short ICU stay and low incidence of complications.        We designed a prospective, double blind, randomized, controlled versus placebo study to       evaluate the efficacy of nightly low dose of Dexmedetomidine infusion to promote sleep and       lower delirium in a population of post cardiac surgery patients. This population is       characterized by longer ICU stay, more physical restraints such as catheters and drains, pain       and sleep deprivation. It is associated with higher prevalence of Delirium and agitation       leading to exposure to severe agitation related adverse events. In the study by Su and al low       dose Dexmedetomidine did not induce adverse events such as bradycardia or hypotension,       conversely safety outcomes showed that Dexmedetomidine use was associated with fewer       tachycardia and hypoxaemia. Moreover, data shows that Dexmedetomidine is likely to play a       cardio protective role in the same way as Clonidine. Those findings are encouraging for its       use after cardiac surgery.        Delirium will be assessed by the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM ICU) and the       primary endpoint of the study is the occurrence of delirium in the first 7 days following       surgery.
This a prospective, multi-center, single-arm, objective performance clinical investigation,       aiming to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Microport™ CardioFlow VitaFlow™ II       Transcatheter Aortic Valve System for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis. A total of 145       subjects will be enrolled in 18 clinical centers within China. Clinical or telephone       follow-up is scheduled at 30 days, 6 months, 12 months, and 2-5 years after valve       implantation.
nan
Botulinium toxin use has been developed with success in wide-ranging fields (neurology,       otorhinolaryngology, gynaecology, urology, plastic surgery, pain therapy), but not in       cardiology.        In the cardio-vascular field, only one pilot study on man has shown its utility in the       prevention of atrial fibrillation by blocking the triggering through the sympathic and       parasympathic systems. The investigators need to assess its potential benefits to prevent       postoperative atrial tachyarrhythmia in a randomised multicentre study, with an expected       impact of approximately 30,000 patients per years in France undergoing these types of cardiac       surgery.        The investigators hypothesize that botulinum toxin injection may substantially reduce       postoperative AF during the first 3 weeks after cardiac surgery without any serious adverse       events. By the suppression of ganglionic plexi (GP) activity in the epicardial fat pads, mild       term antiarrhythmic effects can be achieved with fewer antiarrhythmic drugs and anticoagulant       treatment.
1. BACKGROUND:             Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) is a life-saving intervention for patients with acute            respiratory failure (ARF). Patients may find NIV intolerable and ultimately fail NIV            requiring intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). Sedation may improve a            patient's NIV tolerance. However, this practice has not been adopted by intensivists as            the risk of over-sedation resulting in respiratory depression, inability to protect the            airway, and inadvertent need for intubation are all large deterrents of sedative use in            NIV. Current guidelines lack recommendations on which sedative, if any at all, should be            used during NIV due to the paucity of reliable data. Dexmedetomidine (dex) is a            relatively new sedative. It promotes patient wakefulness, has no effect on respiratory            drive, has important analgesic properties, and when compared to γ-aminobutyric acid            receptor agonists like benzodiazepines, reduces delirium. Dex has been recommended to            use over benzodiazepines for sedation during IMV in critically ill adults, particularly            if delirium is precluding weaning.          2. HYPOTHESIS:             We hypothesize that dexmedetomidine, when compared to placebo, reduces NIV failure in            hospitalized adults with acute respiratory failure and agitation or NIV intolerance.          3. OBJECTIVES:             To evaluate the feasibility of assessing if dexmedetomidine compared to placebo results            in a reduction of non-invasive ventilation failure in patients admitted to the hospital            with acute respiratory failure. This will subsequently inform a large, pragmatic,            powered trial to definitively address the question.          4. METHODS        4.1 Study design: The inDEX trial is a pragmatic, international, multi-centered, stratified,       randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, placebo-controlled vanguard trial. Patients,       investigators, healthcare team, data collectors, outcome assessors, and the statistician will       be blinded to trial arms.        4.2 Allocation and randomization: Local Research Coordinators (RC) will randomize eligible       patients in a fixed 1:1 allocation using undisclosed variable block sizes of four, six, or       eight. The randomization will be achieved using a random number sequence prepared by an       independent statistician. The independent statistician will have access to the random number       sequence and it will be provided to the research pharmacist. Upon request by the local       research coordinator, the research pharmacist will provide the care team with either placebo       or dexmedetomidine, according to the randomization schedule. 4.3 Blinding: Both       dexmedetomidine and normal saline placebo will be given as continuous infusion. To minimize       performance and ascertainment biases, and maintain blinding of patients, investigators,       clinical staff, and RCs; a Research Pharmacist, who is not involved in assessment of patient       outcomes or patient care, will prepare infusion bags. Titration of the infusion rate for both       arms will follow an identical volume-based titration algorithm. Despite optimal blinding       efforts, it is possible that the care team may be able to determine who is receiving       dexmedetomidine based on improvement in NIV tolerance and/or the decrease in heart rate and       blood pressure. However, the cointerventions may also improve tolerance, and can certainly       cause a reduction in heart rate and blood pressure.
Rationale:        Most patients undergoing a cardiovascular procedure need an ICU-bed during the       hospitalization and therefore it is possible that for the unforeseen future, because of the       Covid-19 crisis, many patients will stay on the waiting list for many months to come. There       are some studies showing an increased mortality associated with an increased waiting time for       the patients on the waiting list for an elective cardiac surgery. However, there is no data       on the evolution of the morbidity, the quality of life and the symptomatology of the patients       waiting for an elective operation. Also it is not clear whether the period of waiting for an       elective cardiovascular operation would impact the morbidity or the mortality of the planned       operation at later stage. Furthermore, there is a plethora of studies on risk factors       associated with the perioperative morbidity and mortality in general. Therefore, the       rationale of the current study is to evaluate whether Digital Cardiac Counseling (DCC) would       improve outcomes of the patients waiting for an elective cardiac operation. At the DCC       platform, there will be assessments of cardiovascular symptoms, Covid-19 prevention for       cardiovascular patients, smoking cessation, anxiety relief, exercise stimulation, pulmonary       rehabilitation and diet adjustments. This will be done by means of questionnaires and       E-consults. Investigators start this project now because of two reasons. First, the prolonged       waiting list due to the Covid pandemic creates the opportunity to use this period for cardiac       prehabilitation. Second, it is only recently that the investigators got the possibility to       use a digital platform, which is ideal in this period of social distancing.        Objective:        Primary Objective:          -  What is the effect of an interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling platform with            E-consulting on cumulative incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) at 1            year after the cardiac surgery compared to the control condition (no interactive Digital            Cardiac Counseling)?        Secondary Objective(s): - What is the effect of an interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling       platform with E-consulting on patient-measured outcomes during treatment delay due to the       Covid-19 pandemic measured just before, and 1 year after the cardiac surgery compared to the       control condition (no interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling)?        Study design:        Randomized controlled trial. The investigators will use random permuted block size if       technically feasible otherwise with random block sizes of 4, 6, and 8. The randomization will       be computer-based and will generate two groups. Both groups will get access to the Digital       Cardiac Counseling platform and both groups will complete the same set of validated       questionnaires at the same time intervals. The intervention groups will get additional       training modules and E-consulting based on the risk assessment retrieved from the completed       questionnaires.        Study population:        The patient population will include any adult patient on the waiting list for any elective       cardiovascular operation in MUMC (Maastricht University Medical Center) during Covid-19       pandemic.        Intervention:        the intervention group will receive through the Digital Cardiac Counselling platform       different modules with E-counselling for risk factors evaluated in the questionnaires.The       digital counselling modules for intervention group are described below: -          -  Screening for reduced physical fitness. If there are signs for a decreased physical            condition we will refer the patient, after consultation, for a digital intake with our            physiotherapist. The patients then get access to a digital module with information and            videos of physical exercise training. The patient gets a trainings schedule and the            investigators will contact the patient after about 1 and 3 weeks to check their            progression and to give additional advice when needed.          -  Screening for smoking. If the patient smokes and is motivated to quit smoking, the            investigators will refer, after consultation, for a digital intake with one of our stop            smoking nurses. Then, a digital and telephone supported counselling will start after an            informed and shared decision making with the nurse. When needed, supportive medication            can be prescribed.          -  Screening for malnutrition and obesity. If there are signs of malnutrition (MUST-score)            or obesity (BMI >30) the investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a            digital intake with a dietician. The patients then get access to a digital module with            information about a healthy diet. The investigators will contact the patient ever 2            weeks in case of malnutrition and every 4 weeks in case of obesity. In the case of            malnutrition the dietician can prescribe protein rich nutrition supplements when needed.          -  Screening for anxiety and depression. If there are signs for anxiety and depression, the            investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a digital intake with a            psychological assistant. The patients then get access to a digital platform with            information and exercises. The psychological assistant will guide the patient and will            provide digital support after 1 and 3 weeks.          -  Screening for elevated pulmonary risk score. When patients have an elevated risk score            for adverse pulmonary complications (pulmonary risk score for cardiac surgery patients            questionnaire) the investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a            digital intake with our physiotherapist. The patients then get access to a digital            module with information and videos of pulmonary exercise training. The investigators            will send a inspiratory muscle trainer (IMT) to the patient to perform daily exercises.            The patient gets a trainings schedule and the investigators will contact the patient            after about 1 and 3 weeks to check their progression and to give additional advice when            needed.        Main study parameters/endpoints:        The primary endpoint is cumulative incidence of MACE (Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events) at       1 year after cardiac surgery. The primary outcome is the difference in percentage of patients       that experienced Mace at 1-year follow-up postoperatively. The investigators expect that       approximately 20% of patients in the control group will experience an event. The       investigators will include 197 patients per group, or 394 in total, to be able to have 80%       power to detect a difference in MACE of 10% between groups in favor of the intervention       group, using an alpha of 0.05.
In this randomized blinded pilot-study the effect of pre-PCI planning by       angiographic-co-registered OCT (ACR) compared to OCT or angiographic evaluation alone with       respect to the entire result after PCI will be investigated. A special focus (primary       endpoint) will be on the incidence of geographical mismatch (GM) and/or major edge       dissections. Eligible patients will be randomized in three groups.        Group 1 Pre-PCI-OCT: Patients underwent OCT-imaging before PCI. Lesion assessment, selection       of PCI landing zone as well as stent selection will be performed by investigators based on       OCT findings.        Group 2: Pre-PCI-ACR: Patients underwent ACR-imaging before PCI. Lesion assessment, selection       of PCI landing zone as well as stent selection will be performed by investigators based on       ACR-findings.        Group 3:OCT-Blinded/Angiographic guided PCI: Lesion assessment, selection of PCI landing zone       as well as stent selection will be performed by investigators only based on angiographic       lesion evaluation (standard care).        For outcome analysis all study groups underwent post-PCI-OCT imaging as soon as investigators       assume angiographic justiciable PCI-results (TIMI III, no residual stenosis > 50%; no       angiographic definable or suspicious edge dissections, angiographic acceptable stent       expansion without evidence for malapposition). OCT imaging analysis will be performed within       a OCT core-lab by two investigators blinded for the randomization group.
Myocarditis/ inflammatory cardiomyopathy, which often leads to HF, is still an under-studied       disease with various clinical manifestations. The active myocarditis is found post-mortem       even in 42% of sudden deaths of young people and in 9-16% of adults and 46% of children with       idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Moreover, an increase in morbidity and mortality from       myocarditis was recorded in the years 1990-2015. Myocarditis significantly increases the risk       of HF, serious arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities, sudden death, anxiety, depression       and it reduces quality of life. Myocarditis affects mainly young people (18-40 years old, and       children) who lead active family life and work. Therefore, the disease causes deterioration       of entire family life, it reduces individual productivity, creates high and long-term       treatment costs. There is an urgent need to improve myocarditis therapy. Current guidelines       recommendations in myocarditis consists of standard treatment of already developed HF and       long-term avoidance of physical activity. Due to the lack of good quality scientific data,       there is no clear recommendation for the targeted treatment - thus patients' prognosis may be       poor. The pathogenesis of myocarditis and limited reports suggest the reasonable chance of       significant improvement of patients' survival due to immunosuppressive therapy.        Aim: Aim of the IMPROVE-MC study is to assess the efficacy and safety of 12-month       immunosuppressive treatment with prednisone and azathioprine compared with placebo on the       guideline-recommended medical therapy in patients with biopsy-proven virus-negative       myocarditis or inflammatory cardiomyopathy. Secondary aim is to create ready-to-use       diagnostic and therapeutic scheme in polish and international healthcare systems, which can       lead to myocarditis guidelines change.        Population and methods: In this multicenter (7 recruitment centers), prospective, randomized,       double-blind placebo-controlled trial we are going to include 100 patients aged 18-75 years       old, with biopsy-proven virus-negative myocarditis in stable or worsening course of the       disease despite standard medical treatment, with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)       ≤45% and/or significant cardiac arrhythmias refractory to antiarrhythmic treatment. Exclusion       criteria consist of ie.: another specific etiology of HF different from myocarditis; already       implanted ventricular assist device; a heart transplant recipient; contraindications to       immunosuppressive treatment; suspected sarcoidosis or giant cell myocarditis. Intervention:       azathioprine for 12 months and prednisone for the first 6 months versus placebo for 12 months       Study course: after randomization patients will undergo one-year double-blind treatment and       then one-year follow-up to assess the long-term effects of the treatment.        The efficacy and safety of the treatment will be assessed during study visits:       investigational products/ placebo will be provided and additional tests will be performed -       48-hour Holter monitoring, echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),       laboratory tests and follow-up endomyocardial biopsy after one-year of treatment. In order to       broaden knowledge about myocarditis pathogenesis additional genetic, immunology and proteomic       tests will be performed. All echo, MRI, Holter and biopsy tests will be evaluated centrally.       Study endpoints: primary endpoint is change from baseline in mean LVEF at 12-months.       Secondary endpoints (assessed after 3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months since the treatment start)       consist of: the percentage of patients with ≥10% increase of LVEF; occurrence of       hospitalization; death; heart transplantation; cardiac device implantation; ablation of heart       rhythm disorders; change of arrhythmia burden; HF symptoms assessed in New York Heart       Association (NYHA) class; distance in 6-minute walk test; quality of life; echocardiographic       parameters; cardiac MRI; histopathological exam; biomarkers of fibrosis and myocardial       necrosis; concentration of anti-heart auto-antibodies. Summary: Myocarditis can result in       numerous complications, but there is paucity of data regarding optimal therapy, short- and       long-term effects of possibly effective immunosuppressive therapy. The IMPROVE-MC study will       provide high-quality scientific data about efficacy and safety of immunosuppressive therapy,       non-invasive (MRI, biomarkers) and invasive diagnostics tests (endomyocardial biopsy), and       prognosis of myocarditis patients. This nationwide project will help in creation
Atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation are believed to share the same initiating triggers in       the form of pulmonary vein ectopy. Cavo-tricuspid isthmus-dependent atrial flutter almost       always results from short bursts of antecedent atrial fibrillation. Radiofrequency (RF)       ablation of the cavo-tricuspid isthmus (CTI) is the current accepted first-line treatment for       atrial flutter, although post-ablation atrial fibrillation commonly occurs, even in the       absence of pre-existing atrial fibrillation.        Cryoballoon Pulmonary Vein Isolation (PVI) has become an established treatment for atrial       fibrillation. In patients with both atrial flutter and fibrillation, PVI alone has been shown       to control both types of atrial arrhythmia, with no benefit derived from supplemental RF CTI       ablation.        This study aims to demonstrate that standalone cryoballoon PVI for typical atrial flutter       without RF CTI ablation will lead to a significant difference in preventing recurrence of       atrial arrhythmia compared to radiofrequency ablation of the CTI, and should be offered as       first-line therapy.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) represents the most common arrhythmia of clinical importance. The       prevalence of AF in the general population has been estimated to be just below 1%, or 300,000       Canadians, and rising. Current strategies in AF to preserve normal sinus rhythm include       pharmacological therapy with agents that demonstrate intermediate efficacy and significant       adverse effects. Newer non-pharmacological strategies such as pulmonary vein ablation are       suitable for only a minority of patients and are an expensive method of treatment. As a       result, simple, safe, inexpensive and effective strategies to treat AF and preserve sinus       rhythm are required given the great health and financial burden that this condition       represents to our society.        Omega-3 or "n-3" polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 fatty acids) represent a novel approach to       the prevention and treatment of AF. N-3 fatty acids have known anti-arrhythmic properties and       are associated with a lower risk of sudden (arrhythmic) death. Additionally, n-3 fatty acids       have significant anti-inflammatory properties and potential anti-oxidant effects. Higher       consumption of non-fried fish was recently shown to confer a lower incidence of new onset AF       in elderly adults. N-3 fatty acids might therefore represent a useful strategy for       maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with AF, given their potential to act on several       mechanisms simultaneously. We seek to test this hypothesis in the current clinical trial       proposal.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation is the most commonly performed radiofrequency (RF) ablation       and is usually associated with a long procedural time and sensation of pain in conscious       patients. Prolonged radiation exposure during the procedure puts the patient and the operator       at risk of malignancy and genetic abnormalities. Complications such as asymptomatic cerebral       lesions, tamponade, perforation, and also arrhythmia recurrence were associated with longer       ablation time.        High-power, shorter-duration radiofrequency ablation (HPSDRFA) appears to be a novel concept       for atrial fibrillation (AF) but there are scarce data in conscious patients. The lesion side       index (LSI) value has been associated with durability of pulmonary vein isolation (PVI)       lesions.        We hypothesised that HPSDRFA applications based on the lesion side index (LSI; its has been       associated with durability of pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) lesions) which were not inferior       to standard approach regarding safety and effectiveness with shorten procedure time and being       less painful for a patient.
This is a single center, blinded, prospective, randomized controlled trial. A total of 158       subjects (79 subjects in each arm) are planned. The control group will receive a traditional       cardiac anesthetic using opioids, for which induction will include fentanyl and propofol. The       experimental arm will receive an opioid free anesthetic with an induction bolus of       dexmedetomidine and propofol. The investigators hypothesize that using the opioid free       technique will be more hemodynamically stable within the first 10 minutes of induction.
Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is increased in patients with rheumatoid arthritis       (RA), and among these patients, the prevalence of hypo-vitaminosis D is high. Low levels of       vitamin D have been associated with elevated cardiovascular risk in healthy subjects. The       objective of this study is to evaluate the risk of cardiovascular events in patients having       low 25OHD-total levels at baseline compared to patients with sufficient levels, in an       aggressively treated closed cohort of early-diagnosed RA patients.        The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients with any cardiovascular event,       evaluated using systematic journal audits. Logistic regression models will be applied to test       the hypothesis that there are more cardiovascular events in patients enrolled with a low       level of vitamin D (< 50 nmol/l). Secondarily, Cox regression models, based on survival       analysis, will be applied, to determine the extent to which independent variables (including       different levels of vitamin D at baseline) predict not only whether a cardiovascular event       occur, but also when it will occur.
Background While there is ample research documenting the problems people diagnosed with       cancer face, including high levels of distress, anxiety, depression and symptoms such as       fatigue, pain and sleep disturbance, there is also a limited but growing body of evidence       supporting the efficacy of a range of mind-body therapies (MBTs) in alleviating these and       other symptoms. The investigators have chosen to focus on comparing MBCR and TCQ because both       have level 1 evidence in cancer care, and both have shown potential to affect important       biomarkers and clinical outcomes. Both interventions are similarly rooted in meditative       practice, but MBCR has greater emphasis on mental practice, while TCQ is more emphatically a       body movement-based practice. The investigators also anticipate that many patients will have       a preference for one or the other. Evidence for the efficacy of each will be briefly reviewed       followed by details of study design and methods.        Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR) Through an ongoing program of research the       investigators adapted a group intervention based on intensive training in mindfulness       meditation (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction; MBSR) specifically for people with cancer,       and called it Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR), acknowledging the roots of the       program but also that its form and content is somewhat different, and focused primarily on       the challenges faced by people living with cancer. It is an 8-week program consisting of       weekly group meetings of 1.5 to 2 hours, shortened from traditional MBSR based on practical       logistical concerns and the needs of the study population. Home practice of 45 minutes per       day (15 min yoga; 30 min meditation) is prescribed. As the weeks progress, different forms of       meditation are introduced, beginning with a body scan sensory awareness experience,       progressing to sitting and walking meditations. Gentle Hatha yoga is incorporated throughout,       as a form of moving meditation. Didactic instruction as well as group discussion and       reflection, problem solving and skillful inquiry are commonly applied teaching tools.        Since 1998, the investigators have tested its efficacy in a wide range of studies and groups       of people with cancer, beginning with psychological outcomes including stress symptoms, mood       disturbance including anxiety, anger and depression, then expanding in scope and scale to       assess effects on sleep disturbance and fatigue. The investigators also examined positive       outcomes including post-traumatic growth, spirituality and benefit finding. To assess       potential biological mechanisms of change, the investigators examined the effects of the       program on biomarkers including blood pressure, inflammatory cytokines, stress hormones and       most recently telomere length using increasingly sophisticated study designs, showing benefit       across all of these measures. The investigators work on MBCR for cancer patients and       survivors has spanned the spectrum of research from basic mechanistic research to clinical       trials and implementation science. Others, as well, have studied MBSR with cancer patients,       and several reviews and meta-analyses summarize its benefits across outcomes of anxiety,       stress, mood disturbance and quality of life.        Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ) Work has also been done evaluating the efficacy of tai-chi and qigong in       cancer care, and reviews are now available for both. Tai chi is a shortened name for Tai Chi       Ch'uan, a form of martial art from traditional Chinese medicine. It involves a series of slow       specific movements or "forms" done in a meditative fashion. It is purported that focusing the       mind solely on the movements of the form helps to bring about a state of mental calm and       clarity. The practice itself has been separated from its martial arts roots and is widely       taught as a health behavior practice and exercise. In cancer care, a review of seven       controlled trials in breast cancer patients concluded that while tai chi helped to improve       psychological and physical health measures compared to usual care, compared to other active       interventions it may not be superior. Overall in elderly samples, a larger body of research       supports its efficacy for improving balance and preventing falls and improving overall       psychological well-being, but larger studies with better designs are needed.        Similarly, a growing body of research suggests efficacy of qigong, a practice of aligning       breath, movement, and awareness for exercise, healing, and meditation. Qigong is       traditionally viewed as a practice to cultivate and balance qi (chi) or "intrinsic life       energy". Qigong exercises generally have three components: a posture (whether moving or       stationary), breathing techniques, and mental focus on guiding qi through the body. A review       of the literature including Chinese and Korean databases found 23 studies in cancer care. The       most consistent benefits were seen on immune system function (reduced inflammation), improved       mood, quality of life, and fatigue. As is the case with tai chi studies, randomized       controlled trials with larger samples sizes are necessary to generalize findings. The study       protocol incorporates simple Tai Chi elements within a healing framework stemming from Qigong       principles. For that reason the investigators call it Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ).
The incidence of aortic stenosis is increasing due to the aging of the world-wide population       and the lack of drug therapies to prevent, halt, or effectively slow the stenotic process.       Transcatheter aortic valve replacement has become a viable alternative for treatment of       severe symptomatic aortic stenosis in selected patients who are unsuitable candidates for       surgical valve replacement. The Lotus Valve System is designed to enable precise placement       and minimize or eliminate the paravalvular regurgitation and associated adverse events seen       with earlier generation devices. The REPRISE I study assesses acute safety and performance.
nan
Transthyretin (TTR) amyloidosis belongs to a group of severe and multi-systemic diseases       caused by an extracellular accumulation of fibrillar proteins arranged in beta-pleated       sheets. This pathology can be hereditary (mutations in the TTR gene) or sporadic. Depending       on the form, various tissues are affected: peripheral nervous system (leading to neuropathy,       especially vegetative), heart, kidney... While in forms linked to TTR mutations neuropathy is       the main manifestation, in the sporadic form (also called wild-type), the cardiac impairment       is predominant. Other organ damages are rarely reported in this second form. In the THAOS       registry (Coelho T. et al, 2013), a clinical peripheral neuropathy is reported in 28.4% out       of 67 patients with the sporadic form of the disease, although the authors do not provide a       precise description of the neuropathy type. We propose to prospectively study patients with a       wild-type amyloid cardiopathy condition to identify and describe the associated neuropathy. A       pilot study conducted at the Bordeaux University Hospital demonstrated the feasibility and       interest of this research: it showed the presence of an undetermined aetiology polyneuropathy       in 35.7% out of 14 patients followed for senile cardiac amyloidosis.        Tafamidis is used on familial amyloid neuropathy and a recent study shows an effect on senile       amyloid cardiopathy (Maurer MS et al., 2018) which strengthens the need to determine the       frequency of neuropathies associated with wild-type amyloid cardiopathy and to type them more       accurately.
Prospective, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter clinical evaluation of the       MitraClip device for the treatment of clinically significant functional mitral regurgitation       in symptomatic heart failure subjects who are treated per standard of care and who have been       determined by the site's local heart team as not appropriate for mitral valve surgery.       Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the MitraClip device (Device group) or       to no MitraClip device (Control group).        As part of the COAPT trial, a subset of patients (at least 50 up to 100 in total) will be       registered in the CPX Sub-study, which is designed as a prospective, randomized (1:1 ratio to       the MitraClip or no MitraClip device), parallel-controlled, multicenter study registering       approximately 50-100 subjects in up to 50 qualified US sites from the COAPT trial. Subjects       registered and randomized in the CPX Sub-study will contribute to the total enrollment       approximately of 610 subjects in the COAPT trial. Roll-in subjects will not participate in       the CPX Sub-study.        The COAPT CAS study is designed as a prospective, multicenter, single arm, continued access       registry study. A maximum of 800 subjects (anticipated) will be registered from up to 75       sites in the United States. The enrollment will end once pre-market approval (PMA) of the       proposed expanded indication of MitraClip System is obtained. Active follow-up of patients       will be performed through 12 months with scheduled visits at 30 days and 12 months. The       national Trans catheter Valve Therapy Registry (TVT Registry) will be used for data       collection through 12 months. Annual follow-up data from 2 years through year 5 post-implant       will be obtained by linkage to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Claims       database.        COAPT CAS data may be used to support the PMA application of the labeling claims for the       treatment of moderate to severe or severe FMR in symptomatic heart failure subjects. This       single arm registry will provide valuable new information regarding use of the MitraClip® NT       System under more "real world" conditions.        COAPT study completed recruiting subjects in June 2017. COAPT CAS completed recruiting       subjects in March 2019.
Aims and objectives To estimate frequency of potential malign arrhythmias and cardiovascular       outcome in a population with patients treated with antipsychotic drugs compared to healthy       controls.        Background Life expectancy is about 20 years shorter for patients with mental illness       compared to the general population. Increasing evidence suggest that antipsychotic drugs can       cause cardiac arrhythmias and hence sudden death. However, the evidence as well as the       incidence of rhythm disturbances in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs is insufficient       reported. Prolonged monitoring with external portable monitors is difficult for practical and       technical reasons. In addition, long-term consistent and structured timing of clinical visits       is often a challenge in this vulnerable patient group. In recent years, patients who have       been suspected of rarely occurring arrhythmias, have been offered long-term monitoring using       an 'implantable loop recorder' (ILR). However, no study has evaluated the arrhythmic burden       in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs using ILR.        Methods and materials The study is a national joint project between departments of psychiatry       and cardiology across Denmark. After written informed consent and a baseline evaluation       including echocardiography, ecg and biochemistry, an ILR will be implanted. During follow-up,       arrhythmias will be monitored at regular clinical visits. Cardiovascular endpoints will be       monitored using Danish national registries.        Expected outcome and perspectives The present study is the first to reveal arrhythmias among       patients treated with antipsychotics using consistent long-term monitoring. The results will       give valuable insights into possible mechanism of the observed early death and risk of sudden       death in patients treated with antipsychotics.
248 patients will be enrolled in this study.        Patient from groups 1 is included during his annual medical check-up. Quality of life       questionnaire and other examinations are performed during this site visit. Its is a part of       his usual care. No supplementary visit, directly related to the research, are necessary. 2       sites will participate to the enrollment, belonging to the French national network for       complex congenital heart diseases (M3C) .        Participants (healthy children) from groups 2 are included from schools.The prior agreement       of the Ministry of National Education was obtained before any procedure related to this       study. 3 schools will participate to the enrolment
Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a well-established treatment of aortic valve       stenosis. Yet, requiry of permanent pacing due to new onset atrio-ventricular conduction       block remains a frequent complication. Standard right ventricular pacing (RVP) at high pacing       burden may lead to deterioration of left ventricular function. Left-Bundle-Area Pacing (LBBP)       is a new, innovative method of physiological ventricular stimulation resulting in narrow,       physiological QRS complexes.        In this prospective, randomized, single center clinica trial, patients are included after       TAVR and with normal left ventricular function who require pacing due to a higher degree       atriao-ventricular block with an anticipated high pacing burden. Patients will be randomized       to receive either left bundle branch area pacing (intervention) or right ventricular apical       pacing (control).        The results will confirm the feasibility of LBBP in patients following TAVR. Results will       further investigate the primary outcome of a clinically relevant QRS narrowing and a       combination of exploratory secondary endpoints including clinical outcomes, functional       status, laboratory biomarkers, and quality of life.
STUDY OBJECTIVE        The purpose of this study is to establish the safety and effectiveness of the Edwards SAPIEN       3 and SAPIEN 3 Ultra valves with Commander delivery system in patients with severe       symptomatic calcific mitral valve disease with severe mitral annular calcification who are       not candidates for standard mitral valve surgery.        STUDY DESIGN        A prospective multicenter study enrolling high surgical risk patients with severe mitral       annular calcification (MAC) and symptomatic mitral valve disease. There are 2 arms in this       study: Transseptal Valve-in-MAC (ViMAC) and a control arm of patients treated with medical       treatment only which will include patients who can't be treated due to the presence of       anatomical exclusion criteria or other exclusion criteria.        Enrollment Enrollment will consist of 110 patients in the treatment arm (transseptal ViMAC)       and up to 100 in the medically treated arm).
SURVEY OF THE FIELD Ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) - elicited tissue injury contributes to       morbidity and mortality. In organ transplantation, it is a major challenge. The imbalance in       metabolic supply and demand within the ischemic organ results in tissue hypoxia and       microvascular dysfunction. The following reperfusion enhances the activation of innate and       adaptive immune responses resulting in a cell death program.        A damaged endothelium increases the risk of allograft rejection within 1-year after       transplantation and a drug treated rejection increases the risk of chronicle rejection and       five-year mortality. An improved preservation of the endothelium of the coronary arteries is       therefore instrumental to achieve an improved short- and long-term outcome for the       transplanted patients.        Standard heart preservation before transplantation consists of cold ischemic storage of the       heart. Clinical studies have shown that the mortality risk increases sharply with extension       of the allograft ischemic time over four hours. For each additional hour, the mortality risk       increases with 25% the first year. Different myocardial cardioplegic preservation solutions       and ex-vivo perfusion machines have been developed. Despite some promising experimental       results, no consistent differences in outcome have been found. Our first-in-man pilot study,       including 6 NIHP cases, show the device's feasibility and provide the first pieces of       evidence that machines improves outcome of heart transplantation. However, as these results       are based on a non-randomized study design with a few patients, a randomized study is needed       to ensure the effect.        PURPOSE AND AIMS The purpose of this study is to compare a new state-of-the-art non ischemic       heart preservation (NIHP) method, on heart allograft function, rejection episodes, and       quality of life, with the standard ischemic cold static storage (SCS) method of donor hearts       in adult heart transplantation.        STUDY DESIGN The study is a multicentre, prospective, randomized, open, blinded endpoint,       controlled clinical trial. The study will randomly assign eligible patients to be       transplanted with a donor heart preserved with either a new ex-vivo perfusion method (NIHP)       or the standard cold static storage (SCS). The study will be performed at Skane University       Hospital, Karolinska University Hospital, Linköping University Hospital, and Uppsala       University Hospital, which cover two-thirds of the population in Sweden. Patients listed at       these centres will be transplanted at Skane University Hospital and then returned to their       centre for post-transplant care. The data collection, statistical analysis, and presentation       of results will be done according to the CONSORT criteria. The main outcomes will be reported       on intention to treat basis.        PICO Population: Adult patients with end-stage heart failure eligible for heart       transplantation.        Intervention: Recipient transplanted with a donor heart preserved using NIHP. Control:       Recipient transplanted with a donor heart preserved using SCS. Outcome: Survival, rejection,       graft function, and quality-of-life.        STATISTICAL ANALYS PLAN Populations for analysis The full analysis set will consist of all       randomized patients. Following the intent-to-treat principle, patients will be analyzed       according to the preservation methods (NIHP and SCS, respectively) to which they were       assigned at randomization. Efficacy variables will be analyzed based on all randomized       patients as the primary population.        Patient demographics/other baseline characteristics Baseline value is defined as the last       non-missing assessment prior to the transplantation. Summary statistics will be provided by       treatment group for demographics and baseline characteristics, including age, sex, weight,       height, body mass index (BMI), diagnosis, prior hospitalization, need for inotropic support       pre-transplant and/or ECMO, CK-MB, TnI, proBNP, and vital signs. Continuous variables will be       summarized using n, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Categorical       variables will be summarized using frequency and percentage. The difference between treatment       groups will be compared using the Chi-square test for categorical variables or using       Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables. The p-values will be provided for descriptive       purposes and will not be considered to define any formal basis for determining factors to be       included in statistical models.        Analysis of the primary efficacy variable and outcomes The primary objective of this study is       to evaluate the survival free of allograft rejection and re-transplantation after heart       transplantation comparing two preservation methods (NIHP versus SCS).        Time-to-event variables (primary efficacy variable) will be analyzed using the Cox       proportional hazard model. The estimated hazards ratio and the corresponding two-sided 95%       confidence interval will be provided. A supplemental log-rank test will be performed.       Survival function for each treatment group will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and the       Kaplan-Meier curves will be presented. The frequency and percentage of patients who reach the       primary composite endpoint will be provided by treatment group for the population.        Analysis of secondary efficacy, exploratory, and safety variables and outcomes The secondary       objects of this study are to test if the new preservation technique (NIHP) is superior to       standard preservation technique (SCS) in I/R injury (cTnI and CK-MB), immediate graft       function, QoL and severe adverse events. Furthermore we will analyse the postoperative renal       function (minimum creatinine clearance, need for CRRT), postoperative liver function (ASAT,       ALAT), postoperative pulmonary function (hours in ventilator), SAE, time to no improvement in       physical activity, resource utilizations (length of stay, and number of visits to       professional healthcare).        Continues variables (cTnI, CK-MB, inotrope score, minimum creatinine clearance, hours of       ventilator, physical activity (calorie use), length of stay, and number of visits to       professional healthcare, EQ-5D index and EQ VAS) will be analysed using Mann-Witney U-test.       Additionally, the baseline value of the corresponding variable may be included as a covariate       if appropriate. The estimated treatment effect and the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence       interval will be provided.        Binary variables (primary graft dysfunction, LVEF<40%, RVEF<40%, severe adverse events) will       be analysed using logistic regression. Additionally, the baseline value of the corresponding       variable may be included as a covariate if appropriate. The estimated treatment effect and       the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence interval will be provided. EQ-5D descriptive       system will be analysed by using χ2-test and Fisher's exact test.        SAFETY The assessment of safety will be based primarily on the frequency of adverse events       and laboratory abnormalities. Other safety data will be summarized as appropriate. Laboratory       data will be summarized by presenting shift tables using extended normal ranges (baseline to       most extreme post-baseline value), by presenting summary statistics of raw data and change       from baseline values (mean, medians, standard deviations, ranges). An interim assessment of       the initial 10 patients in the intervention group will be performed when all of them has       passed 30-days post-transplant or expired.
nan
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the J-Valve Ausper system for the treatment of       patients with severe aortic stenosis and/or aortic regurgitation with elevated risk for       surgery.
This is a two-phase, non-randomized, prospective, single arm, multi-center clinical       investigation. Each subject in Phase 1 and Phase 2 is consented for a period of 5 years. All       subjects will be assessed for clinical follow-up at the following intervals: Discharge, 1       month, 3 months, 1 year and annually thereafter until 5 years of follow-up is achieved per       subject.
The VANTAGE clinical trial will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Navitor valve in       patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis who are at intermediate or low risk of       surgical mortality. This trial will also evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Navitor       valve in a valve-in-valve application.
This is a prospective, multi-center, international, randomized controlled, post-market trial.        The primary objectives of the trial are to demonstrate clinical non-inferiority and       hemodynamic superiority of the Evolut PRO/PRO+ System when compared to subjects treated with       the SAPIEN 3/3 Ultra System at 12 months post-procedure.        Subjects will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive TAVR with either a Medtronic SE       Transcatheter Aortic Valve (TAV) or an Edwards BE Transcatheter Heart Valve (THV). Data will       be collected at pre- and post-procedure, at discharge, at 30 days, and once a year until the       5-year follow-up is completed.        Product Names:          -  Medtronic Evolut PRO and Evolut PRO+ TAV Systems          -  Edwards SAPIEN 3 and SAPIEN 3 Ultra THV Systems
The prevalence of coronary artery disease in patients with severe aortic stenosis is high.       About 30-60% of patients undergoing TAVI exhibit coexisting coronary artery disease. Optimal       timing of coronary revascularization in patients with severe aortic stenosis and concomitant       coronary artery disease undergoing TAVI is uncertain.        The goal of this investigator-initiated, randomized, multicenter, two-arm, open-label,       non-inferiority trial is to compare two treatment strategies that are currently performed in       clinical practice: PCI before TAVI versus PCI after TAVI in patients with severe aortic       stenosis and concomitant coronary artery disease.        In this trial, consecutive patients with severe aortic stenosis and concomitant coronary       artery disease accepted for TAVI and PCI by the Heart Team will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio       to the following strategies: iwFR-guided complete coronary revascularization before (within       1-45 days) or after (within 1-45 days) TAVI using the Edwards SAPIEN Transcatheter Heart       Valve®.        For both treatment groups, suitable lesions with iwFR≤0.89 or >90% diameter stenosis on       coronary angiography in a coronary artery ≥2.5 mm in diameter are considered significant.        TAVI and PCI will be performed according to current guidelines.
Screen-ICD is an investigator-initiated randomised clinical superiority trial with blinded       outcome assessment, including two university hospitals, with 1:1 randomisation to cognitive       therapy plus usual care or usual care alone.        The intervention: all patients receive usual care. Patients in the intervention group will       receive an intervention based on cognitive behavioral therapy. The intervention consists of       three steps: 1. The intervention begins with a consultation with a nurse aiming at uncovering       anxiety using the Hamilton anxiety scale and exploring how life with an ICD is perceived, 2.       Based on the pre-specified protocols for each type of anxiety, cognitive therapy is provided       and 3. After each session participants are asked to fill out the HADS questionnaire. When the       patient scores below the cut-off value two times in a row, sessions will end. Each patient       can have a maximum of 15 sessions.
A prospective, multicenter trial designed to confirm that the safety and effectiveness of the       Lotus Valve System in the Japanese medical environment are consistent with the REPRISE III       results for TAVR in symptomatic subjects who have calcific, severe native aortic stenosis and       who are at extreme or high risk for surgical valve replacement.
Subjects will be enrolled at up to 85 centers in the United States, Canada, Europe, and       Australia. There will be up to 1,670 subjects in ACURATE IDE.        The ACURATE IDE study cohorts include the following.          -  Randomized Cohort: A prospective, multicenter, 1:1 randomized controlled trial (RCT;            ACURATE versus a commercially available balloon-expandable SAPIEN 3™ Transcatheter Heart            Valve or future iteration [SAPIEN 3; Edwards Lifesciences LLC, Irvine, CA, USA] or a            commercially available self-expanding CoreValve® Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement            System, CoreValve® Evolut™ R Recapturable TAVR System, EVOLUT™ PRO System, or future            iteration [CoreValve; Medtronic, Inc., Dublin, Ireland]). There will be up to 1,500            subjects in the RCT.          -  Roll-In Cohort: A non-randomized roll-in phase with the test device. Centers that do not            have implantation experience with the ACURATE neo™ Aortic Bioprosthesis (transfemoral            delivery; Boston Scientific Corporation, Marlborough, MA, USA) will perform at least 2            roll-in cases before commencing treatment in the randomized cohort. Centers with prior            experience with ACURATE are not required to do roll-in cases. Data from roll-in subjects            will be summarized separately from the randomized cohort and will not be included in the            primary endpoint analysis.          -  4D CT Imaging Substudy: Selected centers with the ability to perform high quality 4D            computer tomography (CT) scans will include subjects in a 4D CT Imaging Substudy to            assess the prevalence of reduced leaflet mobility and hypoattenuated leaflet thickening            (HALT) and the relationship, if any, to clinical events. Subjects will be randomized to            test (ACURATE) and control device.        All subjects implanted will be followed at baseline, peri- and post-procedure, at discharge       or 7 days post-procedure (whichever comes first), 30 days, 6 months, and then annually for up       to 10 years post-procedure. Enrolled subjects who do not have a study device implanted will       be assessed through 1-year post-procedure for safety/adverse events.
This clinical study is a prospective, single-arm study designed to confirm that the acute       performance and safety of the Lotus Valve Flex System for TAVR are consistent with the       results of the Lotus Valve System in the REPRISE II study, when delivered and deployed in       symptomatic subjects who have severe calcific aortic valve stenosis and who are at high risk       for surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR).
This clinical study is a prospective, single-arm study designed to demonstrate that the acute       performance and safety of the LOTUS Edge Valve System when used with the iSleeve or Lotus       Introducer Set are consistent with the results of the commercially approved Lotus Valve       System used in the REPRISE II study, when delivered and deployed in symptomatic subjects who       have severe calcific aortic valve stenosis and who are at high risk for surgical aortic valve       replacement (SAVR).
The HAART Aortic Annuloplasty Devices are three-dimensional annuloplasty rings designed to be       implanted intra-annularly in the aortic valve to correct annular dilatation and/or maintain       annular geometry of the aortic valve in patients with trileaflet valve morphology (HAART 300)       or bicuspid valve morphology (HAART 200) with moderate to severe aortic insufficiency who are       undergoing aortic valve repair due to symptoms or as part of a repair for an aortic aneurysm.        The study is a multicenter registry study enrolling both retrospective and prospective       participants. Investigators are cardiothoracic surgeons specializing in surgery of the aortic       valve and aorta at facilities with suitable infrastructure to support collection of the       registry study data. Patients who underwent or will undergo aortic valve repair using either       the HAART 300 or HAART 200 Device will be enrolled. All patients known to have received the       HAART 300 or HAART 200 Device at participating centers will be contacted and offered the       opportunity to enroll in this registry study. Prospective participants will have evaluations       prior to surgery, intraoperatively, immediately following surgery, at discharge (or within 90       days), and at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years. In addition to the follow-up clinic visits, phone       contacts are scheduled at years 2,4,6, 7, 8, and 9 to maintain participant engagement as well       as to ascertain if any safety events have taken place. Retrospective participants who have       already received the HAART 300 or HAART 200 Device prior to study enrollment will undergo       safety assessment at the time of enrollment in the study.
Methods        Study Overview and Objectives We will perform a randomized double blinded placebo controlled       trial in Indonesian children under 3 years of age, who are undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass       procedures for correction or palliation of congenital heart disease. The study is approved by       the Ethic Committee for Medical Research National Cardiovascular Center Harapan Kita (NCCHK).       Age 3 years was chosen as the cutoff, as the population < 3 years has the highest mortality       rate in Indonesia. Also, this cutoff reduces age-based population heterogeneity, which could       confound the analyses. We will study two independent vulnerable cohorts within this       population as previously noted.          1. Age < 5 months          2. Age > 5 months and < 3 years with moderate to severe malnutrition        Moderate to severe malnutrition is defined as weight more than 15% below the predicted value       for height. The predicted value will be determined using WHO clinical growth charts based on       the patient gender and baseline length and weight measurements. There is no overlap in study       cohorts (patients ≤ 5 months of age and patients > 5 months of age with moderate to severe       malnutrition form mutually exclusive groups). Thus, this study can be viewed as two separate,       independent trials, each with an overall type I error rate of 0.05 (2-sided). The primary       endpoint within each study cohort is a comparison of time to the first of death, 7 days, or       extubation based on the log-rank statistic from separate Cox Proportional Hazards Models.       These models will include Aristotle Score and other baseline covariates imbalanced across       treatment groups. Patients will be monitored until the first of death, withdrawal of consent,       or hospital discharge.        Safety Endpoints        Safety endpoints for this study include:          1. Death from any cause prior to hospital discharge          2. Death or use of mechanical circulatory life support          3. Incidence of serious adverse events          4. Incidence of unexpected adverse events          5. Incidence of any arrhythmia and specific arrhythmias        Objective 1. To establish the efficacy of Tetronine®, Dalim Biotech Korea (oral T3) in       improving clinical outcome for Indonesian children age 0 to 5 months after congenital heart       disease surgery associated with cardiopulmonary bypass. Eligible population: The age       distribution of children undergoing cardiac surgery in Indonesia is substantially different       than in the U.S. Very few patients at NCCHK less than 6 weeks age undergo cardiopulmonary       bypass procedures (7/400 sequential patients 2011-12). As the The Triiodothyronine during       Cardiopulmonary bypass in Infants and Children (TRICC) trial indicated benefit for T3       supplementation in U.S children under age 5 months, we will study this age group within the       scope of specific aim 1 using Tetronine. This will be a single center study performed in       Indonesia at NCCHK. Historical records show that approximately 170 NCCHK patients will be       eligible for the specific aim 1 portion of the study within the 3 years of enrollment.        Objective 2. Patients older than 5 months will be enrolled if at screening their weight is       equal or less than -2 Z Score for height on WHO DATA Table of Infant Weight for Length Charts       by gender. Historical records at NCCHK show that 160 patients will be eligible for specific       aim 2 over a 3 year period.        Studies required to achieve these objectives will be run concurrently. Power Analysis: We       determined a requirement of 120 patients for objective 1 and 100 patients for specific aim 2       to achieve reasonable power.        Safety Adverse Event (AE) Reporting Although this study will be performed in Indonesia and       does not come under regulation by the U.S Food and Drug Administration, we will use FDA       standards to report adverse events. Reporting of adverse events in cardiac surgical trials in       infants is complicated as there is no regulatory guidance specific to conducting clinical       research in critically ill children. We will use The Pediatric Heart Network reported method       with predefined "sentinel events" in place of serious adverse events (SAEs).        Data Analysis        Two populations will be considered.        ITT Population The primary efficacy analysis population will be based on the principle of       Intention-to-Treat (ITT), and will include all randomized patients who receive any       double-blind study medication. Patients will be grouped according to randomization       assignment.        As-Treated Population The As-Treated population will only be used if there are patients who       mistakenly receive the wrong treatment or have other issues with dosing. In the As-Treated       analyses, patients will be grouped according to the treatment actually received. All safety       analyses will consider only the As-Treated population.        Analysis of the primary efficacy outcome The primary analysis will be performed using Cox       Proportional Hazards, including terms for stratification factors (age, Aristotle score and       nutrition status). Patients will be included in analyses if they were randomized and received       at least one dose of study drug according to the principal of Intention-to-Treat (ITT).       Occasionally patients are randomized and then surgery is cancelled or rescheduled due to       scheduling conflicts, and not due to patient related issues. This can rarely result in the       patient missing the study medication when the operation is rescheduled at the last minute.       However, since this study is double-blind, the ITT principal is preserved because the       treatment assignment is blinded and so unknown to persons responsible for these decisions.        Handling of missing values/ censoring/ discontinuations In the event that the parents of a       patient withdraw consent prior to extubation, the patient will be censored at the time of       discontinuation. Patients who die prior to extubation will be censored at the time of death.       For the primary efficacy analysis, patients who remain intubated at 7 days post cross-clamp       removal (168 hours) will be censored at 7 days. It is imperative that the date and time of       extubation be recorded accurately. If for some reason the date and time of extubation is not       recorded, patients will be considered intubated through 7 days and censored at 7 days.        Sensitivity analyses The two planned sensitivity analyses will use an identical model to the       primary analysis, but time to extubation may be different for some patients (if extubation       occurs after 7 days and before 30 days, for the first sensitivity analysis, or if the       successful extubation does not coincide with clinical readiness for extubation for the second       sensitivity analysis).        Subgroup Analyses For each subgroup variable, a treatment-by-subgroup term will be added to       the primary analysis model to test for heterogeneity of treatment effect across subgroups.       The primary analysis model will be repeated within each subgroup (removing terms for       stratification factors that are related to the subgroup of interest for individual models).        Planned subgroups for analysis include:          1. Nutritional state (normal, mild, moderate and severe malnutrition as determined by            percent of expected weight for length)          2. Age < 6 weeks versus ≥ 6 weeks          3. Age < 24 months versus ≥ 24 months          4. Aristotle score category (6.0-7.9, 8.0-9.9, 10.0-15.0 4)          5. High risk versus Lower risk Aristotle score (< 10 versus ≥ 10)        Analysis of secondary efficacy objectives Time on inotropic agents will be analyzed based on       the percent of time in the first 48 hours that inotropic agents were used. Patients who do       not require inotropic agents will be included in the analysis with 0% of the first 48 hours       of use. The distribution of the percent of 48 hours on inotropic agents will be right-skewed,       so the Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Test will be used to assess treatment differences. Non-parametric       regression may also be used to account for stratification factors. Inotropic score is likely       to also be right-skewed, so similar analysis techniques will be used.        Mean heart rate and mean systemic mean blood pressure at baseline, 1, 6, 12 and 24 hours post       cross-clamp removal will be assessed using ANCOVA, controlling for stratification factors.        Total and free T3 levels at baseline, 1, 12, 24 and 48 hours post cross-clamp removal will be       right-skewed. Lactate levels will also be drawn at these times points as an indicator of       metabolic status, and often used as a clinical indicator in pediatric cardiac intensive care       units. Differences across treatment groups will be assessed using the Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Test       will be used to assess treatment differences. Non-parametric regression may also be used to       account for stratification factors. Longitudinal analyses may also be performed.        Post-operative ICU and Hospital stay durations will be right-skewed. Differences across       treatment groups will be assessed using the Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Test will be used to assess       treatment differences. Non-parametric regression may also be used to account for       stratification factors.        Analysis of safety endpoints        Safety endpoints will be reported individually, as incidence rates by treatment. Fisher's       Exact Test or the Chi-square test will be used to assess treatment differences. Odds ratios       adjusted for stratification factors may also be produced.
nan
DEFINITIONS        ARTERIAL BLOOD PRESSURE CLASSIFICATION        Arterial Blood Pressure (ABP) is a complex physiological variable in regard to its measure,       behavior between BP taken in the same visit at the office and between these and ABPM,       chronobiology (different day time BP levels), evolution in time, meaning and classification.        Not appropriate approach or analysis may be addressed without taking into account all the BP       characteristics that have demonstrated prognostic implications.        In order to arrive to the most comprehensive analysis, BP classification takes into account       the following characteristics:        I. Cause of BP disorder        A. Primary or Essential: Not clear causes may be identified. Multiple mechanisms may be       involved, obvious players and contributors, but no definitive cause.        B. Secondary: an identifiable cause is characterized.        .        II. The sitting, supine, standing BP and/or ABPM value        A. High arterial BP (HBP):          1. At the office: the average of the two systolic or diastolic sitting, supine, standing BP            are considered.               1. Office Supine SBP ≥140 mm Hg and/ or DPB ≥90 mmHg               2. Diagnosis HBP: As single criteria in the abscence of ABPM          2. Ambulatory BP Monitoring (ABPM):               1. 24 hrs: SBP ≥130; DBP ≥80 mmHg.               2. Awake (06:00-22:00): SBP ≥135; DBP ≥85 mmHg.               3. Night (22:00-06:00): SBP ≥125; DBP ≥70 mmHg.          3. Both at the office and ABPM always predominate ABPM:               1. HBP in ABPM at 24 hrs, awake or night time, regardless of the office BP               2. Masked hypertension (MHBP): HBP AWAKE in the ABPM and NBP or LBP at the office.                  B. Low BP (LBP) Since there are no clear limits in ABPM for LBP, only office supine                 SBP and/or DBP will be considered.                  SBP <90 DBP <60                  C. Normal BP (NBP) > 90 SBP <140 > 60 DBP <90 White Coat Hypertension (WCHBP):                 Normal BP AWAKE in the ABPM and HBP at the office.                  D. NIGHT BP                    1. Night HBP: HBP at night in the ABPM                    2. Night NBP: NBP at night in the ABPM                    3. Night LBP: LBP at nigth in the ABPM .                  III. The BP orthostatic response (Supine minus Standing [SUPINE] and Sitting minus                 Standing [SITTING], example: SUPINE OH, or SITTING OH)                  A. Orthostatic hypotension (OhypoT): Drop in BP upon standing                    -  20 mmHg if SBP is normal                    -  30 mmHg if SBP ≥140                    -  10 mmHg in DBP                  B. Orthostatic Hypertension (OhyperT) Rise in SBP upon standing ≥20 mmHg                  C. Orthostatic Normotension (ONT): No criteria for Ohypot or OhyperT                  .                  IV. The circadian component of BP                  A. Normal Dipper (NDBP): average decrease of SBP between day and night time greater                 than 10% and less than 20%                  B. Extreme Dippers (EDBP): greater than 20% fall                  C. Nondippers (NonDBP): less than 10% fall                  D. Reverse dippers (RDBP): night time BP higher than daytime average                  E. Abnormal early Morning BP Surge (BPS): A rise ≥50 mmHg.                  .                  V. BP response to treatment (requires office BP and ABPM)                  A. True Control HBP (TCHBP): NBP at the office and the ABPM AWAKE                  B. True Resistant HBP (TRHBP): HBP at the office and the ABPM AWAKE                  C. False Control HBP (FCHBP): NBP at the office and HBP in the ABPM AWAKE                  D. False Resistant HBP (FRHBP): HBP at the office and NBP in the ABPM AWAKE                  Patients must be in the absence of medication for Essential hypotension diagnosis                 and hypotension must be dismissed as a secondary manifestation of another disease                 or other condition such as dehydration, medication causing hypotension for other                 conditions or secondary dysautonomia.                  There are 3 types of orthostatic hypotension Initial: in the first 30 sec. after                 assuming the standing position Classic: It occurs between the 1st and 3rd min.                 Late: It occurs between 5 and 45 min. later (no patients within this category)                  ESTIMATION OF TARGET-ORGAN DAMAGE Electrocardiogram, Doppler color echocardiogram,                 creatinine and urinalysis, lipid and metabolic profile and microalbuminuria are                 requested to the patients; carotid Doppler is also requested in patients with                 suspect of disorder.                  ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION TREATMENT. The treatment starts with a low-sodium diet (by                 nutritionist whenever possible), increase in fruits and vegetables intake, weight                 loss, aerobic exercise, stop smoking, and changes in lifestyle.                  The pharmacological first step is the use of IECAs (ARA II if there is cough),                 calcium channel blockers, the use of diuretics like the Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg                 (or up to 25mg). If there is orthostatic hypotension, it is considered to start                 with Amlodipine. In those patients with tachyarrhythmia, heart failure or coronary                 disease Beta blockers are chosen. Alpha blockers are the last step therapy.                  ESSENTIAL HYPOTENSION TREATMENT The treatment starts with the use of                 non-pharmacological measures consisting of postural hygiene (avoid assuming the                 standing position abruptly, avoid staying in the standing position for too long),                 eat salty (10 g), drink more than 2 liters of water per day, do aerobic exercises,                 and raise the head of the bed. If there is not improvement, the patient can wear                 gradient tights up to the waist. Next step is start Fludrocortisone 0.05 daily or                 every other day. The last step is Midodrine (from 5 to 20mg daily, distributed at                 06:00, 10:00 and 14:00 hrs or when needed, avoid it after 6:00 pm). Counterpressure                 maneuvers are recommended if there is a threat of syncope.                  ALLOSTASIS                  For the effects of what is mentioned here, allostasis is defined as the ability to                 maintain homeostasis through the neuroendocrine and immune response to the stress                 of any type. There is experimental evidence, measuring the sympathetic nerve                 activity during the mathematical stress with microneurography of the peroneal nerve                 (muscle sympathetic nerve activity or MSNA) that the response may be increasing,                 neutral or decreasing.                  The alterations in blood pressure are considered objective, which may be the result                 of strategies and different responses to stress (adaptability), through the                 neuroendocrine system (mainly the sympathetic nervous system).                  The following variables are evaluated to describe the Allostasis:          1. SYMPTOMS OF HYPOTENSION: postural dizziness, dizziness after squatting, dizziness during            childhood or adolescence (in elementary school, high school and occasionally in college)            during the mass, at public events, religious processions or military parades. It is also            taken into account the previous diagnosis of low pressure or "hypoglycemia" (which in            our culture mainly refers to symptoms of orthostatic hypotension).          2. HISTORY OF NEURALLY MEDIATED SYNCOPE OR VASOVAGAL SYNCOPE diagnosed by the scores of            Calgary or Tilt-test; or vasovagal syncope (syncope caused by seeing blood, a            venipuncture or donating blood; pain, by seeing or speaking about dramatic things, when            coughing, swallowing, defecating, urinating, laughing, or other situations). If these            situations occur with significant dizziness or pre-syncope, but not syncope itself, it            is called vasovagal component.          3. BLOOD PRESSURE: Low BP        The allostasis is classified as:          1. Hypo-allostasis: presence of at least one of the followings:               1. Symptoms of hypotension and/or               2. Neurally mediated syncope (clinical or at the tilt-test) or vasovagal syncope                 and/or               3. Hypotension at the office or at the tilt-test          2. Normal-allostasis: normal blood pressure and no symptoms of hypotension, no neurally            mediated syncope or vasovagal syncope (spontaneous or induced in the tilt table test)            and no presence of hypotension. Include those who develop permanent hypertension after            65 yo. After this age, structural components mainly in the Windkessel vessels, may            contribute more than the increased sympathetic tone to the hypertension phenomenon. For            end points analysis, patients developing Hypertension after 65 yo are considered            hypertensives in their BP group, but normal in the adaptability.          3. Hyper-allostasis: Arterial hypertension starting before 66 yo, with no identifiable            cause, no symptoms of hypotension, no neurally mediated syncope or vasovagal syncope.        Allostasis scores (scores between 1 and 7 apply for hypo-allostasis only)          1. Only symptoms          2. Only essential hypotension          3. Only neurally mediated syncope          4. 1 and 2          5. 1 and 3          6. 2 and 3          7. 1, 2 and 3          8. Normotensive          9. Hypertensive         10. The patient does not remember        Thus then, 3 groups of blood pressure are recognized at the moment of evaluating their impact       on the comorbidities:          1. Normotensive          2. Hypotensive          3. Hypertensive, that in turn can be:               1. Hypertensive since the admission               2. Previously hypotensive               3. Previously normotensive        METHODS        Cohort.        LABORATORY EXAMINATIONS        Complete blood count Basal glycemia and 2 hr post-load 75 g glucose Insulinaemia Glycated       hemoglobin Serum ferritin Thyroid stimulating hormone and sometimes free thyroxine Sodium and       serum potassium Uric acid Lipid profile Creatinine Basal serum cortisol and/or       post-Adrenocorticotropic hormone 24-hr urinary free cortisol Post-dexamethasone cortisol: in       those with high cortisol with not recognized cause Microalbuminuria Others depending on the       case, such as: 24-hr urine catecholamines (Epinephrine, Norepinephrine and Metanephrines),       gliadin antibodies, vanillylmandelic acid, parathyroid hormone, vitamin B12, folic acid,       ANAs, testosterone, creatinine clearance, antibodies against human hemoglobin in stool,       hypersensitive reactive C protein, 24-hrs urinary sodium, brain natriuretic peptide, etc.        There is not a single laboratory to make the blood tests, so there are different values of       normality for some tests.        PHYSICAL EXAMINATION        ANTHROPOMETRIC MEASUREMENTS:        In every medical consultation, the patient is weighed wearing trousers or skirt. The waist is       measured at an equidistant level between the last rib and the iliac crest. The hip is       measured at the level of the greater trochanter. Finally, the size that appears in the       identity card of the patient, or the latest measurement is written down. After May 2016       measurements are taken in the office.        TAKING OF BLOOD PRESSURE:        It is performed using a mercury sphygmomanometer from Tycos brand (it is revised annually in       accordance with the current rules of the Ministry of Health), and it is controlled that the       mercury column falls to 2 mm per second.        The bracelet must cover approximately the 80% of the forearm. We have three sizes of       bracelets as needed, including a pediatric bracelet. This should be positioned at heart       level.        The appearance of the first sound and the disappearance of Korotkoff sounds are taken as       systolic and diastolic BP respectively.        About 6 BP measurements are taken, two on supine position and the second one after 5 min.       supine, this second supine value is the one used to calculate the BP drop upon standing.       Later, and having the bracelet previously inflated, the BP is taken immediately once the       up-right position is assumed (first 30 sec). Then, additional pressures are taken at the       first, second and third min.        Since November the 30th, 2017, two additional BPs will be taken in a seated position; these       will be taken at the beginning of the BP taking session. The patient will be seated       comfortably with their right arm resting at the heart level. The BPs, HRs, COs and SVRs will       be taken first after one minute of having the patient sit comfortably and then again after       two minutes. Later on, the patient will assume the first supine position and the protocol       continues as explained previously; however, the interval between the two BPs taken at the       supine position will be of one and three minutes.        Starting on January 2018, an immediate standing BP after seated position will be taking.        Invasive beat to beat BP taken was no longer used since March 2020 because the COVID-19       Pandemic. Few patients have been seen since then, BP is taken with mercury sphygmomanometer       always in sitting position and sometimes, in supine and standing position.        The same process is fulfilled for the HR, taken in 15 sec. During the taking of blood       pressure neither the patient nor the doctor talk, and it is avoided making any comments that       might alter the patient psychologically, and potentially modify their BP levels. The patient       is asked to have an empty bladder and the Physician tries to support the patient´s arm at the       heart level in every position.        NON-INVASIVE BEAT TO BEAT BP MONITORING Non-invasive, beat to beat, BP monitoring and Cardiac       Output (CO) and Systemic Vascular Resistance (SVR) started to be used since May 2017 to       measure BP, HR, CO, SVR. CNAP Monitor 500, CNSystems, is CE and FDA approved. It is intended       to be use in every consecutive patient.        Instructions:          1. Rings, bracelets, and wristwatches should be withdrawn from the right arm.          2. Fingers in the cuffs should not be bending since this could increase BP artificially.          3. The arm will rest beside the body, relaxed.          4. When standing, the physician or person taking BP should take the patient´s right arm and            help him stand up in an attempt to decrease the arm´s movement and avoid interference on            the recording.          5. The forearm is kept at the heart level.          6. A screen´s photography will be taken with the cellphone after every BP measure (8).          7. A label is placed on the recording just after the seating position and before standing.          8. If the immediate standing BP taken shows a drop in the BP but systemic vascular            resistance (SVR) and cardiac output (CO) are those of the supine position then the BP            won´t be registered and a picture should be taken immediately SVR and CO are            recalculated.          9. If BP starts to rise, review that fingers in the cuff are straight.         10. If in doubt, make a manual measure of the BP.         11. BP and HR date along with SVR and CO will be introduced in the fields of the BP and HR            taken with the sphygmomanometer and usual physical examination. New fields were created            for SVR and CO.         12. The completed data is introduced as 3 attachment files for further analysis.        ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (HEWLETT PACKARD AND MORTARA) A careful reading of each plot is made in       which the HR, PR and cQT intervals, and QRS complex are recorded (automatic measurements).        24 HOURS ECG MONITORING (HOLTER) It is specified the patient rhythm, if is under medication       that may affect the heart rate variability (HRV) and, it is recorded the name and type of       drug. The number of supraventricular and ventricular premature complexes are counted.        The components of heart rate variability (HRV) allows calculating the sympathovagal balance       (SVB) in 24 hrs, in the day (06:00 to 22:00) and at night (22:00 to 6:00).        Low frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), very low frequency (VLF), Total power (TP) LF or HF       one = LF or HF x 100/ TP-VLF SVB = LFone/HFone        AMBULATORY BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING (ABPM) The systolic and diastolic BP and HR are       registered in 24 hrs, in the day and at night, as in the 24-hr Holter monitoring. This test       is requested for all patients in order to define the presence of white coat hypertension or       masked hypertension and to define an effective treatment.        Morning surge in SBP: It results from the difference between the averages of SBP taken in the       first 2 hrs from awakening and the lower nighttime.        COLOR DOPPLER ECHOCARDIOGRAM AND/OR STRESS ECHOCARDIOGRAM It is made the measurement of the       heart and if the response to stress is positive or negative.        The ejection fraction (EF) is usually measured by the technique of Simpson or in a       qualitative way.        Body surface area = (weight x height / 36) X 1/2 Cardiac mass = 1.05 [(LVDD + SW + PW)3 -       LVDD3] - 14 Cardiac mass index = cardiac mass / body surface area        ABDOMINAL ULTRASOUND It is recorded the presence of fatty liver and abdominal aortic aneurysm        UPPER GASTROINTESTINAL ENDOSCOPY AND COLONOSCOPY The main findings are recorded        CORONARY ANGIOGRAPHY Indication: For those who belong to the protocol and will indicate it,       it is tried that the indication belongs to a score between 7 and 9 (appropriate test for a       specific indication) of the recommendation of the working group aforementioned.          1. In patients with symptoms of acute coronary syndrome or positive test for myocardial            ischemia in individuals with moderate or high cardiovascular risk          2. In patients with sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias with unidentifiable cause that            stop spontaneously or require resuscitation          3. In patients with left ventricular dysfunction at basal conditions (ejection fraction            <40%) and evidence of viability in the affected segments.          4. Evidence of new segmental alteration of motility of unknown etiology.          5. Suspected ischemic mitral regurgitation or interventricular septal defect.          6. Presence on the CT scan of lesions >50% on the left main trunk or other vessels, or            possibly obstructive lesions of debatable severity in symptomatic patients (when in the            left main trunk, also in asymptomatic patients)        It is classified according to the obstruction to coronary flow as follows:          -  Lesion <50%, non-obstructive (if not the left main trunk)          -  Between 50-69%, intermediate lesion (if not the left main trunk)          -  >70% or >50% of the left main trunk, it is a significant obstructive lesion. It is            neither specified the number of affected vessels nor the vessel diameter.        ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL STUDY The patient must be in a fasting state and stop taking medications       that affect the study for at least 5 half-lives. It is made by puncturing the right femoral       vein, electro-catheters are placed in the high right atrium, in the bundle of His and in the       right ventricular apex. It is stimulated the double of the thresholds to 3 cycle lengths       (600, 500 and 430 ms) and three extra cycles, starting at 350 ms, and with successive       decreases of 10 ms until the refractory period is found.        The study is made at basal conditions and in presence of Isoproterenol up to 4       micrograms/min; the sedation is obtained with Midazolam, administered 10 min. before starting       the measurements.        Sinus function tests: Sinoatrial conduction time (by Narula method), the sinus node recovery       time (SNRT) and the corrected sinus node recovery time (CSNRT)). For the SNRT, it is       stimulated to several cycle lengths for one min, with decreases of 100 ms up to 430 ms, and       the longest pause is considered as the recovery time; if greater than 1500 ms is considered       abnormal.        The CSNRT is the result of SNRT minus the cycle length of the patient. It is considered       abnormal 500 ms or more (sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 90%). Additionally, at five       min, it is evaluated the response of the HR to the infusion of 3 micrograms of Isoproterenol       per min. (an increase of 25% from basal HR) and the intrinsic HR.        This latter is made by administering Atropine 0.04 mg/kg and propranolol 0.2 mg/kg, the       intrinsic HR is dependent on the age, and is calculated as follows:        118.1 - (0.57 x age), for people under the age of 45 the value is adjusted +14% and for       people over the age of 45 +18%.        Indication:          1. In patients with syncope and ischemic heart disease, when the initial evaluation            suggests an arrhythmic cause.          2. In patients with syncope and bundle branch block, when the noninvasive evaluation has            not clarified the diagnosis.          3. When brief and sudden palpitations precede syncope, when the noninvasive evaluation has            not clarified the diagnosis.          4. In some cases of Brugada syndrome, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and            hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.          5. In high-risk patients in whom other methods have not clarified the diagnosis.        TILT TABLE TEST The patient is connected to the noninvasive BP beat to beat monitor. (Task       Force Monitor).        The patient must be fasting for at least 4 hrs; should stay 5 min. in supine position and       then is tilted at 60 degrees for 20 min. Then, it is administered 400 micrograms of       sublingual nitroglycerin for 20 min. more. The tilt table test (TTT) is considered positive       if the patient presents syncope or if the systolic blood pressure is lower than 60 mmHg. The       hemodynamic variables, the HR variability, and the BP are written down for those patients who       have these values available.        Other diagnoses written down on the TTT are:          -  Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS):          -  Inappropriate sinus tachycardia (IST): It is defined as a HR greater than 90 bpm in            supine position.          -  Orthostatic hypotension (OH):        Fall in the systolic BP ≥20 mmHg or in diastolic BP ≥10 mmHg, at any time of the TTT.        . Orthostatic Hypertension: rise in SBP ≥20 mmHg.          -  Asystole: Isoelectric line that last for more than 3 sec. on the electrocardiogram plot.            The duration in sec. of the asystole is recorded.          -  Chronotropic incompetence (CI):        It refers to the inability of the heart to increase the HR more than 10% when standing up       within the first 10 min, and if the HR in supine <70 bpm. Also, if this criterion is not met       but the HR to 60 degrees is lower than 65 bpm.        Indication:        Single syncope episode of unknown origin in high risk patients, or recurrent syncope in       absence of organic heart disease; or in presence of organic heart disease if cardiac etiology       was previously dismissed.        To show to the patient that he/she has this mechanism of syncope. To discriminate between       reflex and orthostatic syncope To differentiate syncope from epilepsy To diagnose patients       with recurrent unexpected falls To evaluate patients with recurrent syncope and psychiatric       disease Many patients referred by other colleagues already have the TTT.        CAROTID SINUS MASSAGE (CSM) It is made during the TTT        Contraindications for the accomplishment of the procedure:          1. History of cerebrovascular disease          2. Acute myocardial infarction in the previous 3 months, or          3. Presence of carotid bruit during the neck auscultation. The test consists of doing            pressure and circular movements during 10 sec. on each carotid sinus, allowing an            interval of 1 min. between both sides. The massage is made at 0 and 60 degrees tilt. It            is considered a vasodilatory response if the systolic BP falls at least 50 mmHg, and            chronotropic response if an asystole last 3 or more sec. If this latter occurs, it is            expected the patient to recover and the carotid massage is repeated after applying            atropine 1 mg. If still positive for syncope it is considered a mixed response to the            CSM.        OTHER EXAMINATIONS These tests are requested as needed to clarify other findings. 1.       Computerized axial tomography of brain, heart 2. Brain or heart nuclear magnetic resonance 3.       Polysomnography 4. Meta-iodo-benzyl-guanidine 5. Carotid, renal and lower limbs arterial       Duplex 6. Heart or other structures biopsy 7. Others        DATABASE We have over 1100 variables in OpenClinica 3.13        UPDATING INFORMATION It is made through the consultations, phone calls or emails sent to the       patient email address. The patients should be contacted annually if possible.        Requested information:          1. Updating of telephone number, cell phone number and e-mail addresses          2. Full treatment          3. Patient is questioned about new family histories          4. Patient is questioned about new comorbidities, when were they diagnosed and by whom,            following the existing comorbidities in the database.          5. Patient´s current weight and exercise          6. Paraclinical laboratory tests.        COMORBIDITIES DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA          1. Depression:             The diagnosis is made by a psychiatrist and/or if the patient meets the criteria of DSM            IV. If there is difference between the psychiatric diagnosis and the DSM IV criteria,            the diagnosis made by the psychiatrist prevails.          2. Panic attack:             The diagnosis is made by a psychiatrist, the DSM IV criteria or both, the diagnosis made            by the psychiatrist prevails.          3. Fibromyalgia:             It is diagnosed by a rheumatologist.          4. Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS), not associated with hypotension.:               -  Increase in the HR >30 bpm when standing up.               -  Increase in the HR >40 bpm when standing up, between 12 and 18 years old.               -  HR >120 bpm during the first 10 min. of standing up          5. Inappropriate sinus tachycardia:             It is the HR average during the 24-hr Holter monitoring >90 bpm, in absence of secondary            cause.          6. Coronary heart disease:             It is diagnosed by the ACS criteria or by the abnormal coronary angiogram.          7. Acute coronary syndrome (ACS):             It refers to clinical, enzymatic, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic or            angiographic findings, diagnosis of acute coronary disease. It should be dismissed the            cocaine abuse, Prinzmetal's angina and Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. This latter is            classified as such in a separate box.          8. Acute myocardial infarction (AMI):             Term used when there is evidence of myocardial tissue necrosis in the clinical spectrum            of myocardial ischemia.             Ischemic symptoms. New changes or presumed new in the ST segment and T wave, or a new            LBBB. Development of new Q waves on the ECG Evidence by images of loss of viable            myocardium, or the emergence of a segmental defect in the motility.             Identification of an intracoronary thrombus in an angiography or autopsy.             Criteria for prior myocardial infarction:             Pathological Q waves on the ECG, with or without symptoms, in absence of non-ischemic            causes.             Evidence by images of loss of viable myocardium, which is thinner and does not contract,            in absence of non-ischemic cause.             Pathological findings of a previous MI.          9. Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) or transient cerebral ischemia (TCI):        The TCI has traditionally been considered as a deficit lower than 24 hrs in duration, and so       it is considered in this protocol. Well-founded evidence suggests duration lower than 60 min,       and no evidence of nerve damage proved by CT scan or MRI.        10. Atrial fibrillation: Baseline low amplitude oscillations with irregular rhythm on the ECG       or at Holter monitoring (30 sec)        11. Diabetes mellitus: Fasting glucose > 126 mgs/dl Occasional glucose > 200 mgs/dl with       symptoms Glucose load (75 g): > 200 at 2 hrs A1C > 6.5.        12. Cancer: It is diagnosed by an oncologist.        13. Systolic or diastolic heart failure: Patients should be symptomatic. It is considered       systolic if the ejection fraction is decreased, otherwise, it is considered diastolic. In       case of being diastolic, it should be dismissed other causes of dyspnea, such as lung       diseases.        14. Chronic fatigue syndrome or idiopathic chronic fatigue: Persistent or chronic fatigue,       clinically evaluated, unexplained, which lasts for 6 or more consecutive months, of recent       onset, not explained by exercising, not improved substantially with rest and that produces a       substantial reduction in previous levels of occupational, social, educational and personal       activities.        The patient must have 4 of the following symptoms, which must have persisted or be recurrent       for 6 or more consecutive months of illness, and must have not been preceded by fatigue: a)       self-reporting of poor short-term memory or decreased ability to concentrate, as severe as to       alter the previous functional ability, b) dry throat, c) armpit and cervical adenopathies, d)       muscle pain, joint pain without redness, deformity or swelling, de-novo headache, e)       unrefreshing sleep, and malaise post exercise that lasts more than 24 hrs.        15. Syncope: It refers to the transient loss of consciousness secondary to cerebral       hypoperfusion, characterized by sudden onset, short duration, and spontaneous and complete       recovery.        16. Vasovagal syncope Emotion mediated syncope or orthostatic stress, usually preceded by       autonomic activation prodromes (diaphoresis, pallor, nausea). It includes situational syncope       and carotid sinus hypersensitivity.        PSYCHO BIOTYPE EVALUATION        Design to study in depth the Psycho Biotype hypothesis. It consist of consecutive patients of       each BP group to whom the following test are apply:          1. Big Five Questionary (BFQ) for personality.          2. Modified Coping Scale (Scale of modified coping strategies)          3. Zung questionary for depression and anxiety          4. MINI in those patients with moderate or severe depression and/or anxiety at the Zung            questionary, apply by a psychiatrist        GENERAL OBJECTIVE To demonstrate if the essential arterial BP group and/or the adaptability       are clinically important and try to identify the mechanism involve.        SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES To demonstrate that the three groups of blood pressure differ in the       numbers taken as much in the doctor's office as in the ambulatory BP monitoring.        To inquire what variables are different between the groups of BP. To inquire which
